Scottish author (1850-1894). Scottish novelist, poet, essayist, and travel writer
a town at the southern tip of Illinois at the confluence of the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers. city in Illinois, United States
English essayist (1775-1834). English essayist
elected vice president in Roosevelt's 4th term; became 33rd President of the United States on Roosevelt's death in 1945 and was elected President in 1948; authorized the use of atomic bombs against Japan (1884-1972). American politician, 33rd President of the United States (in office from 1945 to 1953)
Italian novelist and playwright (1867-1936). Italian dramatist, novelist, short story writer, and poet, Nobel Prize for Literature laureate
a republic in southwestern Africa on the south Atlantic coast (formerly called South West Africa); achieved independence from South Africa in 1990; the greater part of Namibia forms part of the high Namibian plateau of South Africa. republic in southern Africa
Greek philosopher who was a student of Aristotle and who succeeded Aristotle as the leader of the Peripatetics (371-287 BC). ancient greek philosopher
a presocratic Greek philosopher and astronomer (who predicted an eclipse in 585 BC) who was said by Aristotle to be the founder of physical science; he held that all things originated in water (624-546 BC). ancient Greek philosopher and mathematician
Swedish oceanographer who recognized the role of the Coriolis effect on ocean currents (1874-1954). Swedish oceanographer
United States tennis player (born in Czechoslovakia) who won nine Wimbledon women's singles championships (born in 1956). American-Czech tennis player
the largest of the satellites of Saturn; has a hazy nitrogen atmosphere. sixth moon of Saturn
United States rock star singer and pianist (born in 1935). American singer-songwriter and pianist
the capital and largest city of Haiti. capital of Haiti
United States physicist (born in England) who contributed to the development of the electronic transistor (1910-1989). American physicist and inventor
English writer and early feminist who denied male supremacy and advocated equal education for women; mother of Mary Shelley (1759-1797). British writer and philosopher
(Old Testament) king of Judah who abolished idolatry (715-687 BC). King of Judah
French dramatist (born in Romania) who was a leading exponent of the theater of the absurd (1912-1994). French Romanian playwright
United States literary critic and historian (1886-1963). American literary critic, biographer, and historian
Albanian soldier in the service of Turkey who was made viceroy of Egypt and took control away from the Ottoman Empire and established Egypt as a modern state (1769-1849). Wali of Egypt and Sudan
(Greek mythology) son of Daedalus; while escaping from Crete with his father (using the wings Daedalus had made) he flew too close to the sun and the wax melted and he fell into the Aegean and drowned. in Greek mythology, the son of the master craftsman Daedalus
the peace treaty that ended the Thirty Years' War in 1648. peace treaty ending the Thirty and Eighty Years' Wars
a terrorist organization formed in the 1960s by children of Iranian merchants; sought to counter the Shah of Iran's pro-western policies of modernization and opposition to communism; following a philosophy that mixes Marxism and Islam it now attacks the Islamic fundamentalists who deposed the Shah. political party
Italian writer of novels and short stories (born in Cuba) (1923-1987). Italian journalist and writer of short stories and novels
malevolent aspect of Devi. Goddess in Hinduism
ancient Greek epic poet who is believed to have written the Iliad and the Odyssey (circa 850 BC). ancient Greek epic poet, traditionally considered as the author of the Iliad and the Odyssey
the largest city in India and one of the largest cities in the world; located in eastern India; suffers from poverty and overcrowding. Capital of West Bengal, India
French chemist (born in Poland) who won two Nobel prizes; one (with her husband and Henri Becquerel) for research on radioactivity and another for her discovery of radium and polonium (1867-1934). Polish-French physicist and chemist
the capital and largest city of the Central African Republic. capital city of the Central African Republic
the second of three divisions of the Hebrew Scriptures. Second main division of the Hebrew Bible
United States lexicographer who was accused of plagiarism by Noah Webster (1784-1865). American lexicographer
a Nazi concentration camp for Jews created in northwestern Germany during World War II. Nazi concentration camp
an amendment to the Constitution of the United States guaranteeing the right of free expression; includes freedom of assembly and freedom of the press and freedom of religion and freedom of speech. Part of the United States Bill of Rights
ancient Athenian philosopher; teacher of Plato and Xenophon (470-399 BC). Greek Church historian
a national park in Alaska featuring mountains. United States National Park and Preserve in southern Alaska
a Christian believed to be of Cappadocian descent who became bishop of the Visigoths in 341 and translated the Bible from Greek into Gothic; traditionally held to have invented the Gothic alphabet (311-382). Bishop and theologian
a zodiacal constellation in the southern hemisphere; between Capricornus and Pisces. zodiac constellation straddling the celestial equator
the capital and largest city of Lithuania; located in southeastern Lithuania. capital of Lithuania
an autonomous region of northeastern China that was annexed by the Manchu rulers in 1635 and became an integral part of China in 1911. autonomous region of China
a county in southern England. ceremonial but non-administrative county of England
a stock exchange in New York. American stock exchange
a port city in northwestern Germany at the mouth of the Weser River on the North Sea; has a deep natural harbor and is an important shipping center. German city in the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen
English highwayman (1706-1739). English highwayman
German propaganda minister in Nazi Germany who persecuted the Jews (1897-1945). German Nazi politician and Propaganda Minister
the capital and largest city of Georgia on the Kura river. capital city of Georgia
United States industrialist (born in Russia) who designed the first four-engine airplane and the first mass-produced helicopter (1889-1972). Russian and American aerospace designer
a port city in southeastern Cuba; industrial center. city in Cuba
a member of the Taoist Trinity. the three highest gods in the Taoist pantheon, regarded as pure manifestation of the Tao and the origin of all sentient beings
a fertile plain on the Aegean Sea in east central Greece; Thessaly was a former region of ancient Greece. geographic region of Greece
French prelate and statesman; principal minister to Louis XIII (1585-1642). French clergyman, noble and statesman
United States novelist who wrote about a young Black man and his struggles in American society (1914-1994). American novelist, literary critic, scholar and writer
a planet (usually Venus) seen at sunset in the western sky. telluric planet, second closest from the Sun
Greek philosopher and theologian who reinterpreted Christian doctrine through the philosophy of Neoplatonism; his work was later condemned as unorthodox (185-254). Christian scholar in Alexandria
a historical region of southern Germany. state of Germany
United States film actor (born in Austria) (1885-1957). Austrian actor and director
a small town in southern Pennsylvania; site of a national cemetery. borough and the county seat of Adams County in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania
a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Fornax and Cetus. constellation in the southern hemisphere
(Roman mythology) the Roman god of doorways and passages; is depicted with two faces on opposite sides of his head. Roman mythological deity
a river in eastern Texas that is formed near Dallas and flows generally southeastward to Galveston Bay. river in Texas
English physicist remembered for his studies of the ionosphere (1892-1966). English physicist
a city in central Mexico. state of Mexico
a river in Mississippi that flows southward to the Gulf of Mexico. river in the U.S. states of Mississippi and Louisiana
a town in southeastern Washington near the Oregon border. city in Washington, United States
a terrorist group formed in Peru in the late 1960s as a splinter group from the communist party of Peru; is among the most ruthless guerilla organizations in the world; seeks to destroy Peruvian institutions and replace them with a Maoist peasant regime; is involved in the cocaine trade. communist organization labeled as a terrorist group in Peru
United States comedienne best known as the star of a popular television program (1911-1989). American actress, comedian and businesswoman
English surgeon who discovered Cowper's gland (1666-1709). English surgeon and anatomist
Russian dancer and choreographer who migrated to the United States (born in 1948). Soviet-American dancer, choreographer, and actor
a landlocked republic in west central Asia; formerly an Asian soviet. republic in Central Asia
a constellation in the northern hemisphere between Cassiopeia and Pegasus; contains the Andromeda galaxy. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
United States civil rights leader who was elected to the legislature in Georgia but was barred from taking his seat because he opposed the Vietnam War (born 1940). American social activist
German chemist honored for his research on polymers (1898-1973). German chemist
an island in New York Bay that was formerly the principal immigration station for the United States. island in New York Harbor in the United States of America
English poet (1859-1936). English classical scholar and poet
Hungarian choreographer who developed Labanotation (1879-1958). Austrian choreographer
a collection of Zoroastrian texts gathered during the 4th or 6th centuries. Zoroastrianist scripture
a pitched battle in which American revolutionary troops captured Fort Ticonderoga from the British in 1775. battle during the American Revolutionary War on May 10, 1775
Swiss physiologist noted for studies of the brain (1881-1973). Swiss physiologist
United States jurist and the third chief justice of the United States Supreme Court (1745-1807). American lawyer and politician, third Chief Justice of the United States
a United States destroyer. Arleigh Burke-class destroyer
an island of central Hawaii (between Maui and Oahu). island in Maui and Kalawao counties in Hawaii, United States
(Greek mythology) the Muse of music (or the flute). muse of music in Greek mythology
an ancient region on the coast of western Asia Minor; a powerful kingdom until conquered by the Persians in 546 BC. Iron Age kingdom of western Asia Minor
a city in northern Colombia; a suburb of Barranquilla. Colombian municipality of the department of Atl뭼折뢶ico
Spanish explorer who in 1513 crossed the Isthmus of Darien and became the first European to see the eastern shores of the Pacific Ocean (1475-1519). Spanish explorer, governor, and conquistador
United States physicist who studied electromagnetic phenomena (1791-1878). American scientist
the capital and largest city of Luxembourg. capital city of the country Luxembourg
early ruler of Egypt who rejected the old gods and replaced them with sun worship (died in 1358 BC). 18th dynasty pharaoh
the fictional woodcutter who discovered that `open sesame' opened a cave in the Arabian Nights' Entertainment. character from the folk tale Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves
a Marxist-Leninist terrorist organization in Greece that is violently opposed to imperialism and capitalism and NATO and the United States; an active terrorist group during the 1980s. Greek terrorist organisation
English poet and friend of Wordsworth and Coleridge (1774-1843). British poet
a range of hills in northeastern Minnesota where rich iron ore deposits were discovered in 1887. mining region in Minnesota, United States
a tall round marble campanile in Pisa that is not perpendicular; construction was begun in 1174. famous tower in Italy
a rocky region in the southern Transvaal in northeastern South Africa; contains rich gold deposits and coal and manganese. mountain range
English rock star and guitarist and songwriter who with Paul McCartney wrote most of the music for the Beatles (1940-1980). English singer and songwriter, founding member of The Beatles
a river in northern England that flows southeast through West Yorkshire. river in the United Kingdom
United States golfer considered by many to be the greatest golfer of all time (born in 1940). American golfer
French underwater explorer (born in 1910). French naval officer, explorer, conservationist, filmmaker, innovator, scientist, photographer, author and researcher
a suspension bridge across the Verrazano Narrows between Brooklyn and Staten Island. bridge in New York City
a resort town in northeast Florida on the Atlantic coast; hard white beaches have been used for automobile speed trials. city in Florida, United States
Russian writer (1814-1841). Russian writer, poet and painter
the provincial capital and largest city in Ontario (and the largest city in Canada). capital city of the province of Ontario, Canada
an industrial city in northeastern Mexico. city in Mexico
French Post-impressionist painter who influenced modern art (especially cubism) by stressing the structural components latent in nature (1839-1906). French painter
a country on the island of Jamaica; became independent of England in 1962; much poverty; the major industry is tourism. country in the Caribbean
a battle in which the Scots under Robert the Bruce defeated the English and assured the independence of Scotland. battle during the First War of Scottish Independence
any of a group of heavenly spirits under the god Anu. gods of heaven in Sumerian mythology
thoroughbred that won the triple crown in 1930. Thoroughbred race horse; winner of U.S. Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing in 1930
an estuary between Argentina and Uruguay. estuary formed by the confluence of the Uruguay River and the Paran뭼 River on the border between Argentina and Uruguay
German chemist noted for the synthetic production of ammonia from the nitrogen in air (1868-1934). German chemist and receiver of the Nobel prize
United States theatrical producer noted for a series of extravagant revues known as the Ziegfeld Follies (1869-1932). American broadway impresario
a written agreement ratified in 1781 by the thirteen original states; it provided a legal symbol of their union by giving the central government no coercive power over the states or their citizens. first constitution of the United States
an African river; flows into the Indian Ocean. river, tributary of the Limpopo, in South Africa
United States parapsychologist (1895-1980). American parapsychologist
United States philosopher and logician who championed an empirical view of knowledge that depended on language (1908-2001). American philosopher and logician
a river in southwestern Asia; flows into the Persian Gulf; was important in the development of several great civilizations in ancient Mesopotamia. river in Asia
English writer born in Germany (1905-1994). Bulgarian-born Swiss and British jewish modernist novelist, playwright, memoirist, and non-fiction writer
Sumerian and Babylonian god of pastures and vegetation; consort of Inanna. Sumerian god
the whole body of the Jewish sacred writings and tradition including the oral tradition. Jewish religious text
Italian theologian who censured the worldly possessions of monks and the temporal power of bishops and was condemned for dogmatic errors by the Second Lateran Council (early 12th century). Canon regular and revolutionary
United States drama critic and journalist (1887-1943). American critic
the largest city in Maryland; a major seaport and industrial center. city in Maryland, United States
an ancient Greek city in Boeotia destroyed by Alexander the Great in 336 BC. city in Greece
wife of President Clinton and later a woman member of the United States Senate (1947-). American politician, senator, Secretary of State, First Lady
wide inlet of the Mediterranean Sea on the north coast of Libya. bay
a Brazilian river; tributary of the Amazon River. river in Bolivia and Brazil
United States rock singer who was one of the first to popularize rock'n'roll music (1925-1981). Rock and roll music pioneer
a town in northwest Missouri on the Missouri River; in the 19th century it became the eastern terminus of the pony express. Christian saint; husband of Mary and father of Jesus
one of the islands of Saint Christopher-Nevis. island
United States civil rights leader who led a national campaign against racial discrimination and ran for presidential nomination (born in 1941). African-American civil rights activist and politician
United States evangelist (1837-1899). American evangelist and publisher
capital of the state of Minnesota; located in southeastern Minnesota on the Mississippi river adjacent to Minneapolis; one of the Twin Cities. capital of the state of Minnesota, United States; county seat of Ramsey County, Minnesota
United States economist (born in Russia) who devised an input-output method of economic analysis (1906-1999). Russian economist
United States basketball center (born in 1934). shortstop, coach and manager in Major League Baseball
Israeli general and statesman (1915-1981). Israeli military leader and politician
a port in southwestern Sweden; second largest city in Sweden. city in Sweden. Use Q52502 for the administrative territorial entity
duke of Normandy who led the Norman invasion of England and became the first Norman to be King of England; he defeated Harold II at the battle of Hastings in 1066 and introduced many Norman customs into England (1027-1087). first Norman King of England
a shallow lake on the border between Uganda and Congo in the Great Rift Valley. lake in Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo
from 345 million to 310 million years ago; increase of land areas; primitive ammonites; winged insects. first subperiod of the Carboniferous
the largest city in Ohio; located in northeastern Ohio on Lake Erie; a major Great Lakes port. city in Ohio, United States
Roman satirist who denounced the vice and folly of Roman society during the reign of the emperor Domitian (60-140). ancient roman poet
(Greek mythology) a king who created a statue of a woman and fell in love with it; Aphrodite brought the sculpture to life as Galatea. legendary figure of Cyprus, sculptor
the hemisphere that is to the north of the equator. half of Earth that is north of the equator
a pitched battle in New Jersey during the American Revolution (1778) that ended with the withdrawal of British forces. American Revolutionary War battle fought on June 28, 1778
a United States Army base in Maryland; headquarters of the National Security Agency. United States Army installation
a river in South Carolina that flows southeast to the Atlantic. river in the southeastern United States
a Jewish priest and scribe sent by the Persian king to restore Jewish law and worship in Jerusalem. figure in early Jewish history
a hill in Washington, D.C., where the Capitol Building sits and Congress meets. settlement on the island of Saipan
a sheikhdom of eastern Arabia and capital of the United Arab Emirates. capital city of the United Arab Emirates
French filmmaker (1908-1982). French filmmaker
city recognized by the United States as the capital of the Ivory Coast; largest city of the Ivory Coast. city and the former official capital of Ivory Coast
Danish explorer who explored the northern Pacific Ocean for the Russians and discovered the Bering Strait (1681-1741). Danish explorer
the capital and chief port of Iceland on the southwestern coast of Iceland; buildings are heated by natural hot water. capital and largest city in Iceland
a city in central Mali near the Niger river; formerly famous for its gold trade. city in Mali
favorite of the gods and grandfather of Gilgamish; survived the great flood and became immortal. fictional human
leader of Black Muslims who campaigned for independence for Black Americans (1897-1975). American religious leader
an allegory written by John Bunyan in 1678. Christian allegory written by John Bunyan
English clergyman and metaphysical poet celebrated as a preacher (1572-1631). English poet
United States writer (born in 1923). American novelist, journalist, essayist, playwright, film maker, actor and political candidate
English actress (1847-1928). English actress
a country on western coast of Africa; formerly under French control. country in Africa
a promontory on Hatteras Island off the Atlantic coast of North Carolina. cape in the United States
the tenth sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about December 22 to January 19. zodiac constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
United States comedian who pioneered comedy television shows (born 1922). American comic actor and writer
a department of northwestern France in the Pays de la Loire region. department in northwest France
German poet and novelist and dramatist who lived in Weimar (1749-1832). German writer, artist and politician
capital and largest city of Colombia; located in central Colombia on a high fertile plain. capital city of Colombia and Cundinamarca department
port in northern Libya on the Gulf of Sidra; formerly a joint capital of Libya with Tripoli. second largest city in Libya
French romantic writer (1766-1817). Swiss author
United States film maker who was the first to use flashbacks and fade-outs (1875-1948). American film director and producer
a city of east central Wyoming on the North Platte river. city in and county seat of Natrona County, Wyoming, United States
United States writer who created the Japanese detective Mr. Moto and wrote other novels as well (1893-1960). American writer
(Greek mythology) a great musician; when his wife Eurydice died he went to Hades to get her back but failed. legendary musician, poet, and prophet in ancient Greek religion and myth
a waterfall in the Zambezi River on the border between Zimbabwe and Zambia; diminishes seasonally. a waterfall in southern Africa
an estuary in northern Brazil into which the Tocantins River flows. river in the mouth of the Amazon and Tocantins River Basins in Brazil
French sociologist and first professor of sociology at the Sorbonne (1858-1917). French sociologist
Venezuelan statesman who led the revolt of South American colonies against Spanish rule; founded Bolivia in 1825 (1783-1830). Venezuelan military and political leader, South American liberator
French economist who in 1774 was put in control of finances by Louis XVI; his proposals for reforms that involved abolishing feudal privileges made him unpopular with the aristocracy and in 1776 he was dismissed (1727-1781). French economist
French sociologist and reformer who hoped to achieve universal harmony by reorganizing society (1772-1837). French utopian socialist and philosopher
a town in southern Washington on the Columbia River. city in Benton County, Washington, USA
French general and statesman who became very popular during World War II as the leader of the Free French forces in exile (1890-1970). eighteenth President of the French Republic
United States composer best remembered as a composer of works for the piano (1860-1908). American composer
French writer regarded as the originator of the modern essay (1533-1592). French-Occitan author, humanistic philosopher, statesman
the islands in the northwestern part of Oceania. country in Oceania
son and successor of Francois Duvalier as president of Haiti; he was overthrown by a mass uprising in 1986 (born in 1951). President of the Republic of Haiti
dramatist of ancient Rome (born in Greece) whose comedies were based on works by Menander (190?-159 BC). Roman comic playwright
French painter of religious works (1593-1652). Lorrain painter
Russian mathematician who independently discovered non-Euclidean geometry (1792-1856). Russian mathematician of Ukrainian origin
a town in southern Uganda on Lake Victoria; site of an international airport (where in 1976 Israeli commandos rescued hostages held aboard a plane by Palestinian hijackers). city in Uganda
the first or opening sura of the Quran which is the central prayer of Islam and is used on all special occasions as well as during the five daily prayers. 1st chapter of the Qur'an
a city in southeastern France on the Isere River. commune in Is릾렧e, France
British stage and screen actor noted for playing classic roles (1902-1983). English actor
United States astronomer said to have built the first telescope made in America; also the first director of the United States Mint (1732-1796). American astronomer
the islands in the eastern part of Oceania. subregion of Oceania
German chemist who was co-discoverer with Lise Meitner of nuclear fission (1879-1968). German chemist
English religious leader who founded the Society of Friends (1624-1691). English Dissenter and founder of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers)
the district occupied entirely by the city of Washington; chosen by George Washington as the site of the capital of the United States and created out of land ceded by Maryland and Virginia. capital city of the United States
the battle in which Alexander won his first major victory against the Persians (334 BC). battle
the plateau between the coastal plain and the Appalachian Mountains: parts of Virginia and North and South Carolina and Georgia and Alabama. plateau region located in the eastern United States
a town in central Oregon at the eastern foot of the Cascade Range. city in Oregon, USA
goddess of fate: a giantess who personified the past. one of the Norns in Norse mythology
king of Denmark and Norway who forced Edmund II to divide England with him; on the death of Edmund II, Canute became king of all England (994-1035). king of Denmark, Norway and England
the region of northwest Africa comprising the Atlas Mountains and the coastlands of Morocco and Algeria and Tunisia. region of Northwest Africa
a presocratic Greek philosopher and associate of Anaximander who believed that all things are made of air in different degrees of density (6th century BC). Ancient Greek Pre-Socratic philosopher
a New Testament book containing the second epistle from Saint Paul to the church at Corinth. book of the Bible (Letter)
versatile United States film actor (born in 1937). American actor
mountains in western South Dakota and northeastern Wyoming. mountain range in South Dakota and Wyoming
a Spanish poet whose work was characterized by an affected elegance of style (1561-1627). Spanish Baroque lyric poet
a long arm of the Indian Ocean between northeast Africa and Arabia; linked to the Mediterranean at the north end by the Suez Canal. seawater inlet of the Indian Ocean
Queen of England and Scotland and Ireland; she was the eldest daughter of James II and ruled jointly with her husband William III (1662-1694). joint Sovereign of England, Scotland, and Ireland
a strait between Northern Ireland and Scotland that connects the Atlantic Ocean and the Irish Sea. strait in the United Kingdom
a battle (1898) in which an English and Egyptian army under Kitchener defeated the Sudanese. A battle fought between British and Mahdist Sudanese troops near Omdurman, Sudan, on the 2nd of September 1898. It was one of the most important battles fought during the Mahdist War
a mountainous landlocked country in central Asia; bordered by Iran to the west and Russia to the north and Pakistan to the east and south. republic in South Asia
a city in north central France near Paris; site of the Palace of Versailles that was built by Louis XIV in the 17th century. commune in Yvelines, France
a French poet noted for macabre imagery and evocative language (1821-1867). French poet
United States suffragist in Wyoming (1814-1902). American judge; Justice of the peace
the largest island in the West Indies. country in the Caribbean
an arm of the northern Atlantic between Labrador and southern Greenland. sea
Bohemian physiologist remembered for his discovery of Purkinje cells and the Purkinje network (1787-1869). Czech member of Czech council, biologist, physiologist, doctor and inventor
an industrial city in the eastern Netherlands. municipality in the Netherlands
United States writer and social critic (1817-1862). American poet, essayist, naturalist, and abolitionist (1817뼰1862)
(Old Testament) nephew of Abraham; God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah but chose to spare Lot and his family who were told to flee without looking back at the destruction. person mentioned in the biblical Book of Genesis and the Quran
Norwegian explorer of the Arctic and director of the League of Nations relief program for refugees of World War I (1861-1930). Norwegian polar explorer and diplomat; Nobel Peace Prize laureate
a town in Bavaria (near Munich). municipality of Germany
United States biologist who formulated the chromosome theory of heredity (1866-1945). American biologist
Italian composer of church music and operas (1760-1842). Italian composer
United States sculptor (1906-1965). American visual artist (1906-1965)
capital of the state of Wisconsin; located in the southern part of state; site of the main branch of the University of Wisconsin. city in and state capital of Wisconsin, United States
English poet and satirist (1688-1744). English poet
battle in the American Revolution; Americans under Daniel Morgan defeated the British. battle
(Old Testament) king of Chaldea who captured and destroyed Jerusalem and exiled the Israelites to Babylonia (630?-562 BC). king of the Neo-Babylonian Empire
United States playwright (born in 1947). American playwright, essayist, screenwriter, and film director
a historic town in northern Israel that is mentioned in the Gospels as the home of Joseph and Mary. capital of and largest city in the North District of Israel; predominantly inhabited by Arab citizens of Israel; a center of Christian pilgrimage as the childhood home of Jesus
Irish writer (born in 1932). Novelist, memoirist, biographer, playwright, poet and short story writer
a river in Thailand formed by the confluence of the Nan and Ping Rivers; flows southward past Bangkok and empties into the Gulf of Thailand. main river in Thailand
largest city in Minnesota; located in southeastern Minnesota on the Mississippi river; noted for flour mills; one of the Twin Cities. largest city in Minnesota, U.S., county seat of Hennepin County
the capital and largest city of Uruguay; a cosmopolitan city and one of the busiest ports in South America. capital city of Uruguay
Austrian physicist famous for his discovery of the Doppler effect (1803-1853). mathematician, physicist
(Greek mythology) priestess of Aphrodite who killed herself when her lover Leander drowned while trying to swim the Hellespont to see her. mythical character
the modern Greek port near the site of the ancient city that was second only to Athens. City in the Peloponnese, Greece
United States businessman whose business grew into one of the first department stores (1838-1922). United States Postmaster general
a militant Islamic fundamentalist political movement that opposes peace with Israel and uses terrorism as a weapon; seeks to create an Islamic state in place of Israel; is opposed to the PLO and has become a leading perpetrator of terrorist activity in Israel; pioneered suicide bombing. Palestinian Sunni-Islamic fundamentalist organization, with an associated military wing.
a continent (the third largest) in the western hemisphere connected to South America by the Isthmus of Panama. continent on the Earth's northwestern quadrant
battle of the American Civil War (1864); Union forces under William Tecumseh Sherman were repulsed by Confederate troops under Joseph Eggleston Johnston. mountain in United States of America
Queen of England from 1558 to 1603; daughter of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn; she succeeded Mary I (who was a Catholic) and restored Protestantism to England; during her reign Mary Queen of Scots was executed and the Spanish Armada was defeated; her reign was marked by prosperity and literary genius (1533-1603). Queen regnant of England and Ireland from 17 November 1558 until 1603
United States pharmacologist (born in Germany) who was the first to show that acetylcholine is produced at the junction between a parasympathetic nerve and a muscle (1873-1961). German pharmacologist
United States prizefighter who won the world heavyweight championship in 1952 (1924-1969). American boxer
United States financier who marketed Union bonds to finance the American Civil War; the failure of his bank resulted in a financial panic in 1873 (1821-1905). American lawyer, businessman and politician
American psychologist (born in England) who developed a broad theory of human behavior based on multivariate research (1905-1998). British-American psychologist
(Norse mythology) god of thunder and rain and farming; pictured as wielding a hammer emblematic of the thunderbolt; identified with Teutonic Donar. hammer-wielding Nordic god associated with thunder, lightning, storms, oaks, strength, and fertility
approximately the last 10,000 years. second and current epoch of the Quaternary period
a presocratic Greek philosopher born in Italy; held the metaphysical view that being is the basic substance and ultimate reality of which all things are composed; said that motion and change are sensory illusions (5th century BC). ancient Greek philosopher
Emperor of Rome; son of Vespasian (39-81). Emperor of Ancient Rome
a large national park in Alaska having peaks of the Alaska Range (including Mount McKinley) and the huge Denali fault. national park in Alaska
United States diplomat who did the groundwork for creating the United Nations (1871-1955). American politician, U.S. Secretary of State from 1933 to 1944
a fashionable neighborhood in San Francisco. neighborhood in San Francisco, California, centered on the intersection of California Street and Powell Street; named after four wealthy businessmen (뼰깺寧쏿bobs뼰, later shortened to 뼰깺寧쐎bs뼰) built mansions there
a strait in northern Wales between Anglesey Island and the mainland. strait in the Wales, between Anglesey and Gwynedd
a river that rises in northeastern Mississippi and flows southward through western Alabama to join the Alabama River and form the Mobile River. river in the United States of America
United States folk singer who was largely responsible for the interest in folk music in the 1960s (born in 1919). American folk singer
Englishman and Whig statesman who (under George I) was effectively the first British prime minister (1676-1745). British statesman
a waterfall in southeastern British Columbia; the highest waterfall in Canada (1250 feet high). Waterfalls in British Columbia, Canada
a mining town in southern Wales. town in Wales
a university town in south central Indiana. county seat of Monroe County, Indiana, United States
Russian composer (1804-1857). Russian composer
American Revolutionary leader and signer of the Declaration of Independence (1731-1814). American lawyer and judge, signer of the US Declaration of Independence
United States educator who compiled the McGuffey Eclectic Readers (1800-1873). Early influential American educator
an uncompleted series of tales written after 1387 by Geoffrey Chaucer. collection of stories written in Middle English by Geoffrey Chaucer
(Arthurian legend) wife of King Arthur; in some versions of the legend she became Lancelot's lover and that led to the end of the Knights of the Round Table. Arthurian legend character
the highest mountain peak in Queensland, Australia. mountain in Queensland, Australia
Canadian physicist (born in Germany) noted for contributions to understanding the structure of molecules (born in 1904). German-Canadian physicist and physical chemist
a city in northeastern Egypt at the head of the Gulf of Suez and at the southern end of the Suez Canal. city in Egypt
Chinese philosopher whose ideas and sayings were collected after his death and became the basis of a philosophical doctrine known a Confucianism (circa 551-478 BC). Chinese teacher, editor, politician and philosopher
a mountain in northern Kashmir (26,470 feet high). mountain range
a city of Sudan; located in the central Sudan on the White Nile opposite Khartoum. city in Sudan
a state in southeastern United States; one of the original 13 colonies. state of the United States of America
French composer best remembered for his operas (1818-1893). French composer
a historical region on northwestern India and northern Pakistan. geographic region divided between Pakistan and India
a male character in French pantomime; usually dressed in white with a whitened face. stock character of pantomime and Commedia dell'Arte
Dutch architect and town planner (1856-1934). Dutch architect (1856-1934)
United States civil rights leader who in 1942 founded the Congress of Racial Equality (born in 1920). African Americans' rights activist
a narrow very deep lake in central Washington in the Cascade Range. lake in Chelan County, Washington, United States of America
a 6th century masterpiece of Byzantine architecture in Istanbul; built as a Christian church, converted to a mosque in 1453, and made into a museum in the middle of the 20th century. former basilica and mosque, now museum in Istanbul, Turkey
United States biochemist (born in Germany) noted for his studies of metabolic processes (1899-1986). American biochemist
a cape on the Strait of Magellan in southern Chile; the most southern point on the mainland of South America. cape
Italian painter and art historian (1511-1574). Italian painter, architect, writer and historian
the capital and largest city of Equatorial Guinea on the island of Bioko in the Gulf of Guinea. capital of Equatorial Guinea
German bacteriologist who found a `magic bullet' to cure syphilis and was a pioneer in the study of immunology (1854-1915). German biologist
a cape in southeastern North Carolina extending into the Atlantic Ocean. Wilmington metropolitan area
ancient Athenian statesman and general in the Peloponnesian War (circa 450-404 BC). Athenian statesman
United States actor who was an expert in kung fu and starred in martial arts films (1941-1973). Hong Kong-American actor, martial artist
United States painter noted for works based on life in the Midwest (1892-1942). American painter
Hungarian composer and piano virtuoso (1811-1886). Hungarian romantic composer and virtuoso pianist
a city of central China; capital of ancient Chinese empire 221-206 BC. Capital in Shaanxi Province China
the northeastern part of the Sahara Desert in Libya and Egypt and Sudan. North-eastern part of the Sahara comprising desert areas in Egypt, Libya and Sudan
(Old Testament) the Philistine mistress of Samson who betrayed him by cutting off his hair and so deprived him of his strength. woman described in the Book of Judges
the capital and largest city of Mozambique. capital of Mozambique
an incarnation of Vishnu who rid the earth of Kshatriyas. Brahmin-warrior with axe avatar of Vishnu
United States writer remembered for his historical novels about colonial America (1885-1957). American writer
an extensive geographical region in the Middle East to the south of the Caucasus. Region in Middle East home to the Kurds
Italian painter and sculptor (1884-1920). Italian painter and sculptor
the capital and largest city of Burundi. capital of Burundi
the main island of the Philippines. largest island of the Philippines
a region in northwestern Italy. Italian mountainous semi-autonomous region in the North-West
a girl in a fairy tale who meets a wolf while going to visit her grandmother. European fairy tale
United States cartoonist who created a sarcastic comic strip (born in 1929). American cartoonist, screenwriter and playwright
a university town in northwestern Wales on the Menai Strait. city in Gwynedd, Wales
United States writer who was a leading figure of the beat generation (1922-1969). American writer
an island republic on the island of Iceland; became independent of Denmark in 1944. island republic in Northern Europe
a city of south central Texas; site of the Alamo; site of several military bases and a popular haven for vacationers. county seat city in Bexar County, Texas; seventh largest city in the United States by population
a city in southeastern Brazil; an industrial suburb of Sao Paulo. Brazilian municipality in the state of S?o Paulo
a group of islands in the Atlantic off the Carolina coast; British colony; a popular resort. British overseas territory in the North Atlantic Ocean
an administrative territory in Russia on the eastern coast of Siberia. federal subject of Russia
Spanish histologist noted for his work on the structure of the nervous system (1852-1934). Spanish neuroscientist
English writer of melodramatic novels (1907-1989). British writer
(Old Testament) the fourth son of Jacob who was forebear of one of the tribes of Israel; one of his descendants was to be the Messiah. figure in the Hebrew Bible
a hill to the to the west of the Athenian acropolis where met the highest governmental council of ancient Athens and later a judicial court. a promontory in Athens, and the ancient council associated with it
the 2nd largest city in the Netherlands; located in the western Netherlands near the North Sea. city in the Netherlands
student and mistress and wife of Abelard (circa 1098-1164). French nun, writer, scholar, and abbess
a state in the eastern United States; one of the original 13 colonies; one of the Confederate States in the American Civil War. state of the United States of America
17th President of the United States; was elected vice president and succeeded Lincoln when Lincoln was assassinated; was impeached but acquitted by one vote (1808-1875). American politician, 17th President of the United States (in office from 1865 to 1869)
capital of the state of Florida; located in northern Florida. county seat of Leon County, Florida, USA and Florida federated state capital city
French composer (born in Poland) and pianist of the romantic school (1810-1849). Polish composer and pianist
Russian anarchist (1842-1921). Russian zoologist, evolutionary theorist, philosopher, scientist, revolutionary, economist, activist, geographer, writer
the world's highest volcano; in the Andes in northern Chile; last erupted in 1959. mountain in Parinacota Province' Chile
United States conductor (born in Hungary) (1899-1985). Hungarian conductor and violinist
Canadian hockey player (born 1948). Canadian ice hockey player
Chinese god of literature. Taoist deity in Chinese Mythology, known as the God of Culture and Literature
English physiologist who, with Alan Hodgkin, discovered the role of potassium and sodium ions in the transmission of the nerve impulse (born in 1917). English physiologist and biophysicist
king of France and Germany (846-879). King of Burgundy
the nearest star to the sun; distance: 4.3 light years. star in Centaurus constellation
first Tudor king of England from 1485 to 1509; head of the house of Lancaster in the War of the Roses; defeated Richard III at Bosworth Field and was proclaimed king; married the daughter of Edward IV and so united the houses of York and Lancaster (1457-1509). King of England, 1485뼰1509
a river of central Florida that flows southward to Lake Okeechobee. river in the United States of America
a city of west central California; residential area with light industry. city in Santa Clara County, California, United States
a faint zodiacal constellation in the southern hemisphere; between Sagittarius and Aquarius. zodiac constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
United States piano maker (born in Germany) who founded a famous piano manufacturing firm in New York (1797-1871). German-American piano maker
a county of northwestern England. county in England
city in northwestern Iran near the Caspian Sea. city
a college town in central New York on Lake Cayuga. city in New York, USA
a stock exchange in New York. Stock exchange located in New York City, New York, United States
capital of the state of Missouri; located in central Missouri on the Missouri river. capital city of Missouri
German mathematician and astronomer (1436-1476). German mathematician and astronomer
largest city in New Hampshire; located in southeastern New Hampshire on the Merrimack river. city in Hillsborough County, New Hampshire, USA
German pope from 1049 to 1054 whose papacy was the beginning of papal reforms in the 11th century (1002-1054). German aristocrat and pope (reigning 1049뼰1054), who precipitated the Great Schism (1054); canonized, with feast day on 19 April
King of England from 1483 to 1485; seized the throne from his nephew Edward V who was confined to the Tower of London and murdered; his reign ended when he was defeated by Henry Tudor (later Henry VII) at the battle of Bosworth Field (1452-1485). English monarch
Hawaiian king who united the islands under his rule (1758-1819). established the Kingdom of Hawai?i
a state of southeastern India on the Bay of Bengal. state in India
water god and god of wisdom; counterpart of the Akkadian Ea. god in Sumerian mythology
United States guitarist whose innovative style with electric guitars influenced the development of rock music (1942-1970). American guitarist, singer and songwriter
a port city in northwestern Russia on the Kola Peninsula; the largest city to the north of the Arctic Circle; an important supply line to Russia in World War I and World War II. city in the northwest of Russia
river that rises in northwestern Georgia and flows southwest through central Alabama to join the Coosa River near Montgomery and form the Alabama River. river in the United States of America
a volcanic island republic in Melanesia; independent since 1980. country in Oceania
a constellation in the southern hemisphere between Carina and Pyxis. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
a former village on the James River in Virginia to the north of Norfolk; site of the first permanent English settlement in America in 1607. settlement in the colony of Virginia
an ancient city in south western Phrygia in Asia Minor; site of an early Christian Church. ancient city of Phrygia
conservative English writer of the Roman Catholic persuasion; in addition to volumes of criticism and polemics he wrote detective novels featuring Father Brown (1874-1936). English mystery novelist and Christian apologist
ancient region and Roman province on the Iberian Peninsula; corresponds roughly to modern Portugal and parts of Spain. Roman province
a northern arm of the Baltic Sea; between Sweden and Finland. the northernmost arm of the Baltic Sea
Irish playwright (1880-1964). Irish writer
an Old Testament book telling the prophecies of Zechariah which are concerned mainly with the renewal of Israel after the Babylonian Captivity. book of the Bible
English poet remembered for his verse for children (1873-1956). English poet and fiction writer
humorist who wrote about the imaginary life of cockroaches (1878-1937). American writer
a constellation in the northern hemisphere between Ursa Major and Bootes; contains a cluster of some 10,000 galaxies. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
a mountain peak in the Andes in Argentina (21,302 feet high). mountain in Argentina
French psychologist remembered for his studies of the intellectual development of children (1857-1911). French psychologist and inventor of the first usable intelligence test
(Old Testament) wife of Isaac and mother of Jacob and Esau. Biblical character
a town in northeastern Austria. municipality in Austria
Roman satirist (died in 66). Roman courtier, supposed author of the Satyricon
United States baseball player and famous pitcher (1867-1955). American baseball player
Austrian composer in Schoenberg's twelve-tone music system (1885-1935). Austrian composer
Israeli religious philosopher (born in Austria); as a Zionist he promoted understanding between Jews and Arabs; his writings affected Christian thinkers as well as Jews (1878-1965). German Jewish Existentialist philosopher and theologian
United States journalist with political ambitions (1811-1872). American politician and publisher
an inquisition initiated in 1478 by King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella that guarded the orthodoxy of Catholicism in Spain (especially from the 15th to the 17th centuries). organization
a port city in northern Germany on the Elbe River that was founded by Charlemagne in the 9th century and is today the largest port in Germany; in 1241 it formed an alliance with Lubeck that became the basis for the Hanseatic League. city in Germany, city state and federal state
a city in southeastern Wisconsin on Lake Michigan to the south of Milwaukee. city in and county seat of Racine County, Wisconsin, United States
a river that arises to the north of Lake Baikal and flows north and west to the Yenisei River. river in Siberia, Russia
one of the twelve Apostles (first century). apostle of Jesus
a city in southeast Florida on the Atlantic coast to the north of Miami; a favorite place for college students to go on their spring vacations. county seat of Broward County, Florida, United States
the capital and largest city of Antigua and Barbuda; located on the island of Antigua. capital city of Antigua and Barbuda
United States sculptor (born in 1924). American artist
a city in southwestern Germany famous for innovative architecture. capital city of German federated state Baden-W맚櫻틊temberg
a town in southwest Iowa on the Missouri River across from Omaha. City in Iowa
English conspirator who was executed for his role in a plot to blow up James I and the Houses of Parliament (1570-1606). English member of the Gunpowder Plot of 1605
great Italian architect of the High Renaissance in Italy (1444-1514). architect, sculptor, graphic artist, fresco painter, painter
an island to the northwest of Wales. island in north-west Wales (use Q42617191 for the principal area)
a mountain range extending to the west of the Himalayas. mountain range near Afghanistan and Pakistan border
a name under which Ninkhursag was worshipped. sumerian goddess
a line of latitude north of the south pole. antarctic circle
pope who declared that Catholic princes are subject to the pope in temporal as well as in theological matters (1235-1303). 193rd Pope of the Catholic Church
United States Army installation on the west bank of Hudson river to the north of New York City; site of United States Military Academy. federal service academy in West Point, New York, United States
a town in southern Illinois. city in Illinois, USA
the French national anthem. national anthem of France
United States blues singer (1894-1937). the empress of the  blues
United States playwright noted for light comedies (born in 1927). American playwright, writer, academic
United States operatic soprano (born in 1929). opera soprano
United States singer noted for her rendition of patriotic songs (1909-1986). American singer
a region in northeastern France. former administrative region of France
a resort city in northeastern Florida; the oldest city in the United States. county seat of St. Johns County, Florida, United States
the capital and chief port and largest city of Senegal. capital of Senegal
a wooded plateau in the Champagne-Ardenne region of France; the site of intense fighting in World War I and World War II. low mountain range in Belgium
a seaport in northwestern Italy; provincial capital of Liguria. Italian city
Cuban socialist leader who overthrew a dictator in 1959 and established a Marxist socialist state in Cuba (born in 1927). former First Secretary of the Communist Party and President of Cuba
Prussia and Austria fought over Silesia and most of the rest of Europe took sides; 1740-1748. war
Irish chemist who established that air has weight and whose definitions of chemical elements and chemical reactions helped to dissociate chemistry from alchemy (1627-1691). English natural philosopher, chemist, physicist, and inventor
low-budget theaters located outside the Broadway area in Manhattan. any professional venue in NYC with a seating capacity between 100 and 499
a university town in southeast Wyoming. city in Wyoming
German dramatist whose works concern people torn between reason and emotion (1777-1811). German poet, dramatist, novelist and short story writer, Wer das liest ist doof.
(plate tectonics) a hypothetical continent including all the landmass of the earth prior to the Triassic period when it split into Laurasia and Gondwanaland. prehistoric supercontinent
British physicist and Egyptologist; he revived the wave theory of light and proposed a three-component theory of color vision; he also played an important role in deciphering the hieroglyphics on the Rosetta Stone (1773-1829). English polymath
a town of Denmark in north central Jutland. city in central Jutland, Denmark
a program of rocket-powered flights undertaken by US between 1961 and 1963 with the goal of putting a man in orbit around the earth. the first human spaceflight program of the United States
Flemish painter who was a founder of the Flemish school of painting and who pioneered modern techniques of oil painting (1390-1441). Flemish painter
an ancient town founded by the Romans; noted for extensive and well-preserved ruins. municipality of Algeria
United States singer and actress (born in 1942). American singer, actress, writer, film producer, and director
United States cartoonist who drew intricate diagrams of very complicated and impractical contraptions that accomplished little or nothing (1883-1970). American cartoonist
United States writer (1885-1940). American novelist, playwright, poet
United States historian who stressed the role of the western frontier in American history (1861-1951). American historian
(Greek mythology) the first woman; created by Hephaestus on orders from Zeus who presented her to Epimetheus along with a box filled with evils. mythological figure
an arm of the south Atlantic in Antarctica to the east of the Antarctic Peninsula. part of the Southern Ocean
the railroad tunnel between France and England under the English Channel. rail tunnel beneath the English Channel between France and Great Britain
United States industrialist who manufactured vacuum cleaners (1849-1932). an American vacuum cleaner company
a peninsular region of eastern Canada between Hudson Bay and the Labrador Sea; contains most of Quebec and the mainland part of Newfoundland and Labrador. peninsula
a city in western Saudi Arabia; site of the tomb of Muhammad; the second most holy city of Islam. Saudi Arabian city
a town in northern Michigan on an arm of Lake Michigan. city in Michigan
a Hebrew minor prophet. prophet of the Hebrew Bible
a mountain in the Himalayas in Kashmir (26,660 feet high). mountain in Pakistan
United States librarian who founded the decimal system of classification (1851-1931). American librarian and educator
a city in eastern Congo at the northern end of Lake Kivu near the border with Rwanda. city in Democratic Republic of the Congo
legendary king of ancient Phrygia who was said to be responsible for the Gordian knot. in Greek mythology, the king of Phrygia
a town in southeastern California. city in San Bernardino County, California, United States
an industrial city in southeastern Brazil across the bay from Rio de Janeiro. City in Brazil
militant civil rights leader (1925-1965). American human rights activist
Sauk leader who in 1832 led Fox and Sauk warriors against the United States (1767-1838). Sauk leader
an inlet of the North Atlantic; fed by the Delaware River. bay on the east coast of the United States
United States writer and leading exponent of transcendentalism (1803-1882). American philosopher, essayist, and poet
a state in southwestern United States; site of the Grand Canyon. state of the United States of America
engineer who was a brother of Ernst Werner von Siemens and who moved to England (1823-1883). engineer and inventor
a port and the capital of Guinea. capital of Guinea
a republic in eastern Africa. country in Africa
United States meat-packer who began the use of refrigerated railroad cars (1839-1903). American businessman
French composer (1890-1962). French composer
an Apocryphal book consisting of text added to the Book of Daniel. passage that appears after Daniel 3:23 in the Septuagint, but not in the Masoretic; considered canonical by Catholics and the Eastern Churches, but not by Protestants; contains a penitential prayer and hymn of praise by the 3 children in the furnace
English theologian whose objections to Roman Catholic doctrine anticipated the Protestant Reformation (1328-1384). English theologian and early dissident in the Roman Catholic Church
English poet (1837-1909). English poet, playwright, novelist, and critic
Emperor of Rome; son of Vespasian who succeeded his brother Titus; instigated a reign of terror and was assassinated as a tyrant (51-96). Emperor of Ancient Rome
(Greek mythology) a giant Boeotian hunter who pursued the Pleiades and was eventually slain by Artemis; was then placed in the sky as a constellation. giant huntsman in Greek mythology
United States writer of novels and short stories mostly on moral themes (1804-1864). American novelist and short story writer
a canal in northern Scotland that links North Sea with the Atlantic Ocean; runs diagonally between Moray Firth at the northeastern end and Loch Linnhe at the southwestern end; now little used. canal
an industrial city in northwestern Ohio on Lake Erie. county seat of Lucas County, Ohio, United States
German physicist who developed the Geiger counter (1882-1945). German physicist
a republic in western South America; achieved independence from Spain in 1821; was the heart of the Inca empire from the 12th to 16th centuries. republic in South America
Dutch physiologist who devised the first electrocardiograph (1860-1927). Dutch physiologist
a legendary giant lumberjack of the north woods of the United States and Canada. fictional character
a town in southern Turkey; ancient commercial center and capital of Syria; an early center of Christianity. city in Turkey
an area in Germany around the upper Elbe river; the original home of the Saxons. state in Germany
Italian religious and political reformer; a Dominican friar in Florence who preached against sin and corruption and gained a large following; he expelled the Medici from Florence but was later excommunicated and executed for criticizing the Pope (1452-1498). Italian Dominican friar and preacher
an arm of the Pacific Ocean in southern Japan; surrounded by the islands of Honshu and Shikoku and Kyushu and linked to the Sea of Japan by a narrow channel; the chief port is Hiroshima. Japanese water body between Honsh嚥, Shikoku, and Ky嚥귞짋h嚥
(Roman mythology) goddess of the dawn; counterpart of Greek Eos. goddess of dawn in Roman mythology
an industrial city in southern California (south of San Diego) near the Mexican border. city in California
United States businessman who opened a shop in 1879 selling low-priced goods and built it into a national chain of stores (1852-1919). American businessman
a range of the Appalachians extending from southern Pennsylvania to northern Georgia. mountain range
English explorer who with John Speke was the first European to explore Lake Tanganyika (1821-1890). British explorer, geographer, translator, writer, soldier, orientalist, cartographer, ethnologist, spy, linguist, poet, fencer, and diplomat
Scottish missionary and explorer who discovered the Zambezi River and Victoria Falls (1813-1873). Scottish explorer and missionary
English painter and art critic (1866-1934). English artist and art critic
the period from 1811-1820 when the Prince of Wales was regent during George III's periods of insanity. era in the United Kingdom
a town in southwest Oklahoma. city in Oklahoma
Russian chemist who developed a periodic table of the chemical elements and predicted the discovery of several new elements (1834-1907). Russian chemist
a Marxist terrorist group formed in 1963 by Colombian intellectuals who were inspired by the Cuban Revolution; responsible for a campaign of mass kidnappings and resistance to the government's efforts to stop the drug trade. insurgent military group in Colombia
a city in eastern China on the Yangtze River; a former capital of China; the scene of a Japanese massacre in the 1930s. capital of Jiangsu province in Eastern China
Swedish theologian (1688-1772). unit of time
United States artist noted for his line-drawn caricatures (1904-2003). American caricaturist
northern region of India where Hinduism predominates. historical region
the longest river of Asia; flows eastward from Tibet into the East China Sea near Shanghai. longest river in China
a town in north central California on the Sacramento River. city in Shasta County, California, United States
a commercial city in northern Japan on western Hokkaido. city on Hokkaido, Japan
the decisive battle in which William the Conqueror (duke of Normandy) defeated the Saxons under Harold II (1066) and thus left England open for the Norman Conquest. battle which occurred on 14 October 1066
a town in eastern Mississippi. city in and the county seat of Lauderdale County, Mississippi, United States
United States feminist and suffragist (1818-1893). American abolitionist and suffragist
English cricketer (1916-1990). English cricketer
a rugged plateau that runs north to south through central Wales. mountain range
German tennis player who won seven women's singles titles at Wimbledon (born in 1969). German tennis player
a United States 44-gun frigate that was one of the first three naval ships built by the United States; it won brilliant victories over British frigates during the War of 1812 and is without doubt the most famous ship in the history of the United States Navy; it has been rebuilt and is anchored in the Charlestown Navy Yard in Boston. 1797 heavy frigate of the United States Navy, oldest commissioned naval vessel afloat
United States botanist and agricultural chemist who developed many uses for peanuts and soy beans and sweet potatoes (1864-1943). American botanist and inventor
German pathologist who recognized that all cells come from cells by binary fission and who emphasized cellular abnormalities in disease (1821-1902). German doctor, anthropologist, public health activist, pathologist, prehistorian, biologist and politician
tension between Arabs and Israeli erupted into a brief war in June 1967; Israel emerged as a major power in the Middle East. 1967 war between Israel and Egypt, Jordan, and Syria
a suspension bridge at Hull, England; 4,626 feet long. suspension bridge near Kingston upon Hull, England
a region in central Italy. region in central Italy with an area of about 23,000 square kilometres (8,900 square miles). The regional capital is Florence
(Akkadian) god of the Moon; counterpart of Sumerian Nanna. god of the moon in Mesopotamian mythology
a desert in northern Chile rich in nitrate and copper deposits. desert in South America
a city in southern Sweden. urban area in Lund Municipality, Sweden
a line of latitude about 23 degrees to the south of the equator. line of latitude delineating southern border of tropics
United States filmmaker and comic actor (1935-). American screenwriter, director, actor, comedian, author, playwright, and musician
an empire established by Augustus in 27 BC and divided in AD 395 into the Western Roman Empire and the eastern or Byzantine Empire; at its peak lands in Europe and Africa and Asia were ruled by ancient Rome. period of Imperial Rome following the Roman Republic (27 BC뼰395 AD)
a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Orion and Columba. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
United States pathologist who discovered viruses that cause tumors (1879-1970). American scientist
a city in northeastern France to the east of Paris; scene of the coronation of most French kings; site of the unconditional German surrender in 1945 at the end of World War II. city in Marne, France
American philanthropist who left his library and half his estate to the Massachusetts college that now bears his name (1607-1638). English-American clergyman and philanthropist
a city in southeastern Brazil. capital of the Brazilian state of Paran뭼
British writer of essays; one of three literary brothers (1884-1939). British novelist and essayist
an important seaport on the island of Cebu in the Philippines. city of the Philippines and capital of the province of Cebu
Italian painter of the Venetian school (1518-1594). Italian painter of the Renaissance school
Babylonian consort of Anshar; in Sumerian the name signifies `the totality of the lower world'. earth mother goddess
Celtic goddess famous for her beauty; mother of Dylan. figure in Welsh mythology
a town in California to the south of San Francisco. city in San Mateo County, California, United States
a city in northern Iraq on the Tigris across from the ruins of Nineveh. city in northern Iraq and capital of Nineveh Province
United States writer (1889-1973). American novelist and poet
outstanding United States athlete (1888-1953). American track and field athlete and baseball player
(Greek mythology) a hero and king of Athens who was noted for his many great deeds: killed Procrustes and the Minotaur and defeated the Amazons and united Attica. legendary king of Athens
the Russia that is part of Asia. subregion of Asia
German conductor (1876-1962). German-born conductor, pianist, and composer
French novelist who wrote about the conflict between desire and religious belief (1885-1970). French author
the largest city and former capital of Turkey; rebuilt on the site of ancient Byzantium by Constantine I in the fourth century; renamed Constantinople by Constantine who made it the capital of the Byzantine Empire; now the seat of the Eastern Orthodox Church. largest city in Turkey
a former province of east central France; now administered by Rhone-Alpes. historical province of France
Mexican revolutionary leader (1877-1923). Mexican revolutionary
Scottish philosopher of common sense who opposed the ideas of David Hume (1710-1796). Scottish philosopher
Mexican composer of nationalistic works using themes from Indian folk music (1899-1978). Mexican composer, conductor, music theorist, educator, journalist, and founder and director of the Mexican Symphonic Orchestra
a port city in southeastern Ontario at the western end of Lake Ontario. city in Ontario, Canada
United States inventor who manufactured the first elevator with a safety device (1811-1861). Founder of Otis Elevator Co.
German architect known for his simple utilitarian factory buildings (1868-1940). German architect and designer
a midwestern state in north-central United States. state of the United States of America
United States prohibitionist who raided saloons and destroyed bottles of liquor with a hatchet (1846-1911). American temperance advocate
British philosopher born in Austria; a major influence on logic and logical positivism (1889-1951). Austrian-British philosopher
the region of Malaysia on the Malay Peninsula. mainland, western portion of the nation-state of Malaysia in South East Asia
a university town in southwestern Maine. town in Cumberland County, Maine, US
a republic on the island of Madagascar; achieved independence from France in 1960. island nation off the coast of Southeast Africa, in the Indian Ocean
the southeastern region of the United States: South Carolina and Georgia and Alabama and Mississippi and Louisiana; prior to the American Civil War all these states produced cotton and permitted slavery. cultural and geographic subregion in the Southern United States
French chemist known as the father of modern chemistry; discovered oxygen and disproved the theory of phlogiston (1743-1794). French chemist
French sculptor best known for creating the Statue of Liberty now in New York harbor. French sculptor
United States actress; daughter of Maurice Barrymore and Georgiana Barrymore (1879-1959). American actress
a town in southeastern New Mexico on the Pecos River near the Mexican border; potash deposits. town in Eddy County, New Mexico, USA
Belgian surrealist painter (1898-1967). Belgian painter
United States physician who in 1863 founded a medical school for women (1813-1888). american physician
United States chemist who studied the nature of chemical bonding (1901-1994). American scientist
a republic in the southern half of the Korean Peninsula; established in 1948. republic in East Asia
United States comedian and actor in silent films noted for his acrobatic skills and deadpan face (1895-1966). American actor and filmmaker
American patriot who presented the colonists' grievances to the English king (1744-1775). American lawyer
Danish astronomer whose observations of the planets provided the basis for Kepler's laws of planetary motion (1546-1601). Danish astronomer and alchemist
a town in East Sussex just to the south of the place where the battle of Hastings took place. town in East Sussex, on the south coast of England
a port and industrial city in northeastern England. city in Tyne and Wear, North East England
Scottish architect who designed many public buildings in England and Scotland (1728-1792). Scottish neoclassical architect
the fields in Thessaly where in 197 BC the Romans defeated the Macedonians. battle of the Second Macedonian War
American poet (born in Africa) who was the first recognized Black writer in America (1753-1784). American poet
Queen of England and Scotland and Ireland; daughter if James II and the last of the Stuart monarchs; in 1707 she was the last English ruler to exercise the royal veto over parliament (1665-1714). queen of England, queen of Scotland and queen of Ireland (1702뼰07); queen of Great Britain (1707뼰14)
Indonesian terrorist and Islamic militant who commands the Laskar Jihad; uses violence to achieve political ends (1965-2000). Indonesian Cleric
a national park in Utah having colorful rock formations and desert plants and wildlife. national park in Wayne and Garfield counties in Utah, United State
English psychologist who collaborated with I. A. Richards in designing Basic English (1889-1957). English linguist, philosopher, writer
three small islands belonging to Ireland at the entrance to Galway Bay. Group of three islands on the west coast of Ireland
the principal sacred text of Sikhism contains hymns and poetry as well as the teachings of the first five gurus. Primary scripture of Sikhism
fictional vampire in a gothic horror novel by Bram Stoker. fictional character created by Bram Stoker
the 4th brightest star and the brightest star in the constellation Bootes; 36 light-years from Earth. star in the constellation Bo?tes
United States architect (1827-1895). American architect
(computer science) 128 characters that make up the ASCII coding scheme. computer character encoding
celestial shepherd god; conductor of souls of the dead. deity
the second sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about April 20 to May 20. zodiac constellation straddling the celestial equator
a low mountain range in western Massachusetts; a resort area. mountain range
English clergyman who (with John Henry Newman and Edward Pusey) founded the Oxford movement (1792-1866). English churchman and poet, a leader of the Oxford Movement
a former province of northwestern France on a peninsula between the English Channel and the Bay of Biscay. administrative region of France
a terrorist organization organized in 1959 by student activists who were dissatisfied with the moderate nationalism of the traditional Basque party; want to create an independent homeland in Spain's western Pyrenees. former armed Basque separatist group (1958-2018)
United States poet (1884-1933). American writer and poet
Austrian physicist who discovered the wave equation (1887-1961). Austrian physicist
United States jurist appointed chief justice of the United States Supreme Court by Richard Nixon (1907-1995). Chief Justice of the United States from 1969 to 1986
a city of central Russia to the south of Moscow. city in the center of European Russia
a mountainous republic of south-central Europe; formerly part of the Ottoman Empire and then a part of Yugoslavia; voted for independence in 1992 but the mostly Serbian army of Yugoslavia refused to accept the vote and began ethnic cleansing in order to rid Bosnia of its Croats and Muslims. former country
the capital of Malawi; located in south central Malawi. capital of Malawi
German poet who wrote libretti for operas by Richard Strauss (1874-1929). Austrian novelist, librettist, poet, dramatist, narrator, and essayist
a town in western Wyoming. town in the Jackson Hole valley of Teton County, Wyoming, United States
a commercial browser. desktop web browser known for introduction of features that were ultimately adopted into other web browsers
the largest city in Kentucky; located in north central Kentucky on the Ohio river; site of the Kentucky Derby. county seat of Jefferson County, Kentucky, United States
United States actor (1914-1998). actor from the United States
United States poet and critic (1916-1986). American poet, professor, translator
the smallest of the Great Lakes. one of the Great Lakes in North America
a town in northeastern Texas near the Oklahoma border. city in Texas, USA
English geologist remembered as the first person to recognize that dinosaurs were reptiles (1790-1852). British scientist and obstetrician
United States assassin of President John F. Kennedy (1939-1963). American former marine who assassinated John F. Kennedy
a city in South Vietnam; formerly (as Saigon) it was the capital of French Indochina. city of Vietnam
United States writer (born in England) whose best known novels portray Berlin in the 1930's and who collaborated with W. H. Auden in writing plays in verse (1904-1986). English-American novelist
American statesman; president of the Confederate States of America during the American Civil War (1808-1889). President of the Confederate States
a town in southeastern Vermont on the Connecticut River. town in Windham County, Vermont, United States
king of France who put down an alliance of unruly nobles and unified France except for Brittany (1423-1483). king
the outer of two small satellites of Mars. moon of Mars
the smallest planet and the nearest to the sun. smallest and closest planet to the Sun
United States operatic mezzo-soprano (born 1934). American mezzo-soprano opera singer
United States psychologist (born in Panama) whose research persuaded the Supreme Court that segregated schools were discriminatory (1914-2005). African American husband-and-wife psychologist duo
Russian writer whose best known novel was banned by Soviet authorities but translated and published abroad (1890-1960). Russian writer
(Greek mythology) the wife of Odysseus and a symbol of devotion and fidelity; for 10 years while Odysseus fought the Trojan War she resisted numerous suitors until Odysseus returned and killed them. legendary queen of Ithaca, wife of Ulysses
a naval battle in the Spanish-American War (1898); the American fleet under Admiral Dewey defeated the Spanish fleet. battle
(Greek mythology) winged goddess of victory; identified with Roman Victoria. goddess of victory in Greek mythology
United States songwriter whose songs embody the sentiment of the South before the American Civil War (1826-1864). American songwriter
(Akkadian) a goddess; wife of the Moon god Sin. goddess of reeds in Sumerian mythology
state in eastern India on the Bay of Bengal. state of India
medical practitioner who is regarded as the father of medicine; author of the Hippocratic oath (circa 460-377 BC). ancient Greek physician
a town in extreme northwest Florida. county seat of Escambia County, Florida, United States
popular child actress of the 1930's (born in 1928). American actress and diplomat
an Old Testament book telling Amos's prophecies. book of the Bible
the capital of Scotland; located in the Lothian Region on the south side of the Firth of Forth. capital city of Scotland, UK and local government council area
a vast plain in Tanzania to the west of the Great Rift Valley known for its wildlife. geographical region in Africa
a country of west central Africa (including islands in the Gulf of Guinea); became independent from Spain in 1968. country in Africa
United States baseball player (born 1925). American baseball player, manager, coach
German engineer (born in France) who invented the diesel engine (1858-1913). German inventor and mechanical engineer
Danish chemist who devised the pH scale (1868-1939). Danish chemist
an important Hindu god; the sun in its life-giving aspect. deity in Vedic Hinduism
a small terrorist group of Muslims in South Africa formed in the 1980s; was inspired by Ayatollah Khomeini to create an Islamic state in South Africa. organization
a city in western Missouri; the beginning of the Santa Fe Trail. county seat of Jackson County, Missouri, United States
the world's longest river (4150 miles); flows northward through eastern Africa into the Mediterranean; the Nile River valley in Egypt was the site of the world's first great civilization. river in Africa and the longest river in the world
a town in northeastern Massachusetts on Cape Ann to the northeast of Boston; the harbor has been a fishing center for centuries. city on Cape Ann in Essex County, Massachusetts, in the United States
English zoologist noted for her studies of chimpanzees in the wild (born in 1934). British primatologist, ethologist, and anthropologist and graphic designer
a town of southern Ontario opposite northern Michigan. city in Ontario, Canada
the battle that ended the second Macedonian War (197 BC); the Romans defeated Philip V who lost his control of Greece. battle of the Second Macedonian War
Irish playwright and theater manager in Dublin (1886-1958). Irish writer
a university in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. state-related research university located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States
a lake in the Northwest Territories in northwestern Canada; drained by the Mackenzie River. lake in the Northwest Territories of Canada
Belgian architect and leader in art nouveau architecture (1861-1947). Belgian architect and designer
a province in southern China. province of China
a New Testament book containing the first epistle from Saint Paul to the church at Corinth. book of the Bible (Letter)
United States historian who wrote a nine volume history of the people of the United States (1852-1932). American historian
United States tennis player who donated the Davis Cup for international team tennis competition (1879-1945). American politician and tennis player
English aeronautical engineer who invented the jet aircraft engine (1907-1996). British Royal Air Force engineer air officer
the largest island in the Bismarck Archipelago; part of Papua New Guinea. island of the Bismarck Archipelago in Papua New Guinea
United States composer (born in Austria) who collaborated with Lerner on several musicals (1901-1987). Austrian-American composer
a Canadian town in northern Manitoba on Hudson Bay; important port for shipping grain. town in Manitoba, Canada
United States religious leader (born in Bohemia) who united reform Jewish organizations in the United States (1819-1900). American rabbi
a town in northern Minnesota. city in and county seat of Beltrami County, Minnesota, United States
Austrian architect (1870-1933). Austrian and Czech architect
father of the gods and consort of Tiamat. mesopotamian deity
Czech composer (1824-1884). Czech composer
an arid region of southeastern California. desert in California, United States
United States pioneer photographer famous for his portraits; was the official Union photographer for the American Civil War (1823-1896). American photographer
United States psychologist and psychophysicist who proposed Stevens' power law to replace Fechner's law (1906-1973). American psychologist & scholar
sultan of Syria and Egypt; reconquered Jerusalem from the Christians in 1187 but was defeated by Richard Coeur de Lion in 1191 (1137-1193). Kurdish leader. First Sultan of Egypt and Syria, founder of the Ayyubid dynasty
the Elector of Brandenburg who rebuilt his domain after its destruction during the Thirty Years' War (1620-1688). Elector of Brandenburg and Duke of Prussia
the capital and largest city in Iowa. county seat city in Polk County, Iowa, USA and Iowa federated state capital city
king of Saudi Arabia from 1964 to 1975 (1906-1975). King of Saudi Arabia
United States broadcast journalist who was in Berlin at the outbreak of World War II (1904-1993). American journalist
the transformation from an agricultural to an industrial nation. transition to new manufacturing processes in Europe and the United States
English writer and a central member of the Fabian Society (1858-1943). English sociologist, economist, socialist, labor historian and social reformer
a Crusade initiated in 1248 after the loss of Jerusalem in 1244 and defeated in 1249. Military conflict
an active volcano on south central Hawaii Island. volcano on the island of Hawaii in Hawaii, United States
English nurse who remained in Brussels after the German occupation in order to help Allied prisoners escape; was caught and executed by the Germans (1865-1915). British nurse
a naval battle in 1805 off the southwest coast of Spain; the French and Spanish fleets were defeated by the English under Nelson (who was mortally wounded). 1805 battle of the Napoleonic Wars
Finnish physician who first described vascular hemophilia (1870-1949). Finnish doctor
a Powhatan woman (the daughter of Powhatan) who befriended the English at Jamestown and is said to have saved Captain John Smith's life (1595-1617). Algonquian princess
United States singer who did much to popularize gospel music (1911-1972). American gospel singer
a port in southern Lebanon on the Mediterranean Sea; formerly a major Phoenician seaport famous for silks. city in the South Governorate of Lebanon, also an ancient Phoenician city and the legendary birthplace of Europa and Elissa (Dido)
United States actor (born in Hungary) noted for playing sinister roles (1904-1964). Austrian actor
a city and port in northern Jutland. city in Denmark
a city in northern Uganda. city in Uganda
a city in southern Afghanistan; an important trading center. capital of Kandahar Province, Afghanistan
a desert in Uzbekistan to the southeast of the Aral Sea. desert
German physicist (born in 1929). german nuclear physicist
one of the world's largest dams on the Nile River in southern Egypt. dam on the Nile River in Aswan, Egypt
British admiral; was captain of the H.M.S. Bounty in 1789 when part of the crew mutinied and set him afloat in an open boat; a few weeks later he arrived safely in Timor 4,000 miles away (1754-1817). officer of the British Royal Navy and a colonial administrator
a country on the island of Dominica. country in the Caribbean
an ancient megalithic monument in southern England; probably used for ritual purposes. prehistoric monument in the English county of Wiltshire; Neolithic henge monument
French physicist; husband of Marie Curie (1859-1906). French physicist
British chemist who isolated nitrogen (1749-1819). British scientist
United States railroad engineer who died trying to stop his train from crashing into another train; a friend wrote a famous ballad describing the incident (1864-1900). American railroad engineer
a city in southwestern Spain; a major port and cultural center; the capital of bullfighting in Spain. city in the province of Seville, Spain
English painter (born in America) who became the second president of the Royal Academy (1738-1820). Anglo-American painter
a glacial lake in central New York; one of the Finger Lakes. lake in Ontario County, New York, USA
United States outlaw who fought as a Confederate soldier and later led a band of outlaws that robbed trains and banks in the West until he was murdered by a member of his own gang (1847-1882). American outlaw, confederate guerrilla, and train robber
United States businessman (born in German) who founded a company to make pipe organs (1831-1914). American company of music boxes and instruments
Italian anatomist who was one of the fathers of modern anatomy; noted for descriptions of the ear and the heart (1520-1574). Italian anatomist
British statesman famous for his oratory; pleaded the cause of the American colonists in British Parliament and defended the parliamentary system (1729-1797). Anglo-Irish statesman and political theorist
a group of coral islands in eastern Micronesia. country in Oceania
United States neurologist noted for his study of the brain and pituitary gland and who identified Cushing's syndrome (1869-1939). American neurosurgeon
queen of Great Britain and Ireland and empress of India from 1837 to 1901; the last Hanoverian ruler of England (1819-1901). British monarch who reigned 1837뼰1901
Russian composer and pianist (1829-1894). Russian pianist, composer and conductor
a river in northern England that flows east to the North Sea. river in North East England
an area in northwestern Africa with rich phosphate deposits; under Moroccan control since 1992. former Spanish territory of Western Sahara
a town in southeastern Alaska that was the capital of Russian America and served as the capital of Alaska from 1867 until 1906. city-borough in Alaska, USA
a volcanic island (part of Campania) in the Tyrrhenian Sea at the north end of the Bay of Naples. volcanic island in the Tyrrhenian Sea
a battle in which Philip II of Macedon defeated the Athenians and Thebans (338 BC) and also Sulla defeated Mithridates (86 BC). battle in 338 BCE
industrial city in northwestern Honduras. city in Cortes Departement, Honduras
(Norse mythology) god of poetry and music; son of Odin. skaldic god of poetry in Norse mythology
an island to the to the east of Australia and to the north of New Zealand. overseas territory of France in the southwest Pacific Ocean
a university town in northern Mississippi; home of William Faulkner. city in Lafayette County, Mississippi, United States of America
United States economist (born in Czechoslovakia) (1883-1950). Austrian economist
the chief sun god; drives away winter and storms and brightens the earth with greenery; drives away evil and brings justice and compassion. deity
a range of the southern Carpathian Mountains extending across central Romania. mountain range
a city in south central India in Andhra Pradesh. city in Hyderabad district, Telangana, India
one of the British colonies that formed the United States. English possession in North America between 1628 and 1684
the battle on 18 June 1815 in which Prussian and British forces under Blucher and the Duke of Wellington routed the French forces under Napoleon. battle of the Napoleonic Wars in which Napoleon was defeated
United States general who served as chief of staff and commanded Allied forces in the South Pacific during World War II; he accepted the surrender of Japan (1880-1964). U.S. Army general of the army, field marshal of the Army of the Philippines
United States architect (1853-1906). architect
a country of southeastern Asia that extends southward along the Isthmus of Kra to the Malay Peninsula. constitutional monarchy in Southeast Asia
the mother of Jesus; Christians refer to her as the Virgin Mary; she is especially honored by Roman Catholics. religious figure and mother of Jesus of Nazareth
United States journalist (born in England in 1908). British journalist and broadcaster
United States rhythm and blues pianist and singer and composer (born in 1928). American R&B musician
German mathematician and astronomer who made accurate measurements of stellar distances and who predicted the existence on an 8th planet (1784-1846). German astronomer and mathematician
a mountainous area of Antarctica bounded by the Ross Sea and Wilkes Land. region of Antarctica
United States industrialist and aviation pioneer (1878-1930). American aviator and industrialist
an amusement park in Anaheim created in 1955 by Walt Disney. American theme park in California owned by The Walt Disney Company
German physiologist and anatomist (1801-1858). German physiologist, comparative anatomist, ichthyologist, and herpetologist
a university town in east central Illinois adjoining Champaign. county seat of Champaign County, Illinois, United States
(legend) the circular table for King Arthur and his knights. Neolithic henge monument
Norman leader in the First Crusade who played an important role in the capture of Jerusalem (1078-1112). Norman leader of the First Crusade
French writer known for works concerning women's rights and independence (1804-1876). French novelist and memoirist; pseudonym of Lucile Aurore Dupin
a communist country in the northern half of the Korean Peninsula; established in 1948. sovereign state in East Asia
the largest planet and the 5th from the sun; has many satellites and is one of the brightest objects in the night sky. fifth planet from the Sun and largest planet in the Solar System
a suspension bridge across the Hudson River between New York and New Jersey. bridge in New York City
United States political journalist (1915-1986). author
English lutenist and composer of songs for the lute (1563-1626). English Renaissance composer, lutenist, and singer
king of Scotland (died in 1057). King of Scotland
an ancient city in southeastern Greece; dominated the Peloponnese in the 7th century BC. ancient Greek city
United States admiral who commanded Union ships during the American Civil War (1801-1870). United States Navy admiral
the capital and largest city of Cyprus. capital city of Cyprus
French aviator who in 1909 made the first flight across the English Channel (1872-1936). French aviator, inventor and engineer
a river that rises in northeastern Turkey (near the source of the Euphrates) and flows generally eastward through Armenia to the Caspian Sea; ancient name was Araxes. river located in and along the countries of Turkey, Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Iran
a town in southwest Arkansas on the Texas border adjacent to Texarkana, Texas. city in Arkansas, USA
island in Paris on the Seine. island in the river Seine, Paris, France
Scottish philosopher whose sceptical philosophy restricted human knowledge to that which can be perceived by the senses (1711-1776). Scottish philosopher, economist, and historian
a section of northwestern Washington, D.C.. neighborhood and historic district in Washington, D.C.
United States painter born in Germany; works characterized by simple geometrical patterns in various colors (1888-1976). German-American artist and educator
the period after the American Civil War when the southern states were reorganized and reintegrated into the Union; 1865-1877. era of military occupation in the Southern United States after the American Civil War (1865뼰1877)
a large dam built in 1933 on the Colorado River in Nevada. hydroelectric dam on the Colorado River, United States
English admiral who defeated the French fleets of Napoleon but was mortally wounded at Trafalgar (1758-1805). Royal Navy Admiral
an ancient kingdom in southern Mesopotamia; Babylonia conquered Israel in the 6th century BC and exiled the Jews to Babylon (where Daniel became a counselor to the king). ancient Akkadian region in Mesopotamia
United States abolitionist (1786-1865). American abolitionist
an Old Testament book telling of a rabbi's efforts in the 5th century BC to reconstitute Jewish law and worship in Jerusalem after the Babylonian Captivity. book of the Bible
Polish filmmaker (born in 1929). Polish film director
from 63 million to 58 million years ago; appearance of birds and earliest mammals. first epoch of the paleogene period
a port city in northeastern Brazil. municipality in Brazil, capital of Rio Grande do Norte
French jazz violinist (1908-1997). French jazz violinist
a city in the European part of Russia; 2nd largest Russian city; located at the head of the Gulf of Finland; former capital of Russia. federal city in Russia and the former capital
British sculptor (born in the United States) noted for busts and large controversial works (1880-1959). American-born British sculptor
United States actress; daughter of John Drew and wife of Maurice Barrymore; mother of Ethel Barrymore and John Barrymore and Lionel Barrymore (1854-1893). American actress
United States jurist appointed chief justice of the United States Supreme Court in 1910 by President Taft; noted for his work on antitrust legislation (1845-1921). American politician, lawyer and judge
the capital of Egypt and the largest city in Africa; a major port just to the south of the Nile delta; formerly the home of the Pharaohs. capital city of Egypt
a northwestern arm of the Indian Ocean between India and Arabia. region of the northern Indian Ocean
(Greek legend) the greedy king of Phrygia who Dionysus gave the power to turn everything he touched into gold. King with the power to turn whatever he touches to gold
the largest freshwater lake in the world; the deepest of the Great Lakes. largest of the Great Lakes of North America
an island (part of Campania) in the Bay of Naples in southern Italy; a tourist attraction noted for beautiful scenery. island near Naples
a constellation in the northern hemisphere near Ursa Major. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
United States journalist whose exposes in 1906 started an era of muckraking journalism (1866-1936). American journalist
United States architect (born in China in 1917). Chinese-American architect
an area in the southern region of Babylonia in present-day Iraq; site of the Sumerian civilization of city-states that flowered during the third millennium BC. ancient civilization and historical region in southern Mesopotamia
a mountain peak in the southern Sinai Peninsula (7,500 feet high); it is believed to be the peak on which Moses received the Ten Commandments. mountain in the Sinai Peninsula of Egypt
a range of the Rocky Mountains in southeastern British Columbia. mountain range
Egyptian statesman who (as president of Egypt) negotiated a peace treaty with Menachem Begin (then prime minister of Israel) (1918-1981). Egyptian president and Nobel Peace Prize recipient
a wide shallow inlet of the Arafura Sea in northern Australia. large, shallow sea enclosed on three sides by northern Australia and bounded on the north by the Arafura Sea
Mexican general who tried to crush the Texas revolt and who lost battles to Winfield Scott and Zachary Taylor in the Mexican War (1795-1876). Mexican politician and military
the most important of the Seven Hills of Rome; supposedly the location of the first settlement and the site of many imperial palaces. hill in municipio I, Italy
a city in southwestern Mexico; a popular health resort and site of architecture from the Spanish colonial era. city in Jalisco, M뫜럞ico
United States country singer (1942-1998). American country music singer
a town in east central Maine on the Penobscot River. city in Penobscot County, Maine, USA
a town in western California to the south of San Francisco on a peninsula at the southern end of Monterey Bay. city in California, United States
German statesman who served as chancellor of Germany (born in 1918). Chancellor of West Germany 1974-1982
a city of north central North Carolina. city in Forsyth County, North Carolina
German raconteur who told preposterous stories about his adventures as a soldier and hunter; his name is now associated with any telling of exaggerated stories or winning lies (1720-1797). fictional German nobleman
(Greek mythology) the husband of Medea and leader of the Argonauts who sailed in quest of the Golden Fleece. Greek mythological hero
a resort city in southeastern Rhode Island; known for the summer homes of millionaires; important yachting center. city in and county seat of Newport County, Rhode Island, United States
a county in southwestern England. ceremonial county of England (use Q21694695 for administrative non-metropolitan county)
United States composer of musical comedies (1885-1945). American composer of musical theater and popular music
son of King John and king of England from 1216 to 1272; his incompetence aroused baronial opposition led by Simon de Montfort (1207-1272). King of England, Lord of Ireland and Duke of Aquitaine
Swedish operatic soprano who played Wagnerian roles (born in 1918). Swedish opera singer
a firth on the southwestern coast of Scotland emptying into the North Channel. firth
goddess of criminal rashness and its punishment. Greek divinity, personifies infatuation and inconsiderate actions
Indian statesman and leader with Gandhi in the struggle for home rule; was the first prime minister of the Republic of India from 1947 to 1964 (1889-1964). Indian lawyer, statesman, and writer, first Prime Minister of India
Siberian peasant monk who was religious advisor in the court of Nicholas II; was assassinated by Russian noblemen who feared that his debauchery would weaken the monarchy (1872-1916). Russian mystic
United States writer and editor (1837-1920). author, critic and playwright from the United States
a port and fashionable resort city on the Pacific coast of southern Mexico; known for beaches and water sports (including cliff diving). largest city in Guerrero, Mexico
a town in west central Arkansas; a health resort noted for thermal springs. county seat and city in Garland County, Arkansas, USA
the capital and largest city of Chad; located in the southwestern on the Shari river. capital and largest city of Chad
a town in western Massachusetts. city in Massachusetts
an early name of Ireland that is now used in poetry. given name
capital of Namibia in the center of the country. capital of the Republic of Namibia
a city in western Germany; a spa since Roman times. capital of the German state of Hesse
English industrialist who pioneered in the design and manufacture of aircraft (1885-1962). British aerospace engineer
an island in the Indian Ocean off the southeastern coast of India. island republic in South Asia
French physician who described cardiac anomalies including Fallot's tetralogy (1850-1911). French physician
an important port in Yemen on the Red Sea. city in Yemen
a city in Lombardy on the Po River; noted for the manufacture of fine violins from the 16th to the 18th centuries. Italian city in Lombardy
a town of southwestern Kansas on the Arkansas River; formerly a rowdy cow town. city in the U.S. state of Kansas
French inventor who (with his brother Josef Michel Montgolfier) pioneered hot-air ballooning (1745-1799). French brothers inventor duo, inventors of a hot air balloon or globe a뫜뜾ostatique, 1783
French mathematician who described the conditions for solving polynomial equations; was killed in a duel at the age of 21 (1811-1832). French mathematician, founder of group theory
a city in northeastern Texas (suburb of Dallas). city in Texas
statesman who led Northern Rhodesia to full independence as Zambia in 1964 and served as Zambia's first president (1924-1999). First President of Zambia
a university in Columbus, Ohio. public research university in Columbus, Ohio, United States
English writer; grandson of Thomas Huxley who is remembered mainly for his depiction of a scientifically controlled utopia (1894-1963). English writer
United States architect (born in France) who laid out the city plan for Washington (1754-1825). French-born American architect
English writer who published a translation of romances about King Arthur taken from French and other sources (died in 1471). English writer, author of ''Le Morte d'Arthur''
a national park in Alaska having mountains and forests and tundra and sand dunes and archeological sites. National Park in northwestern Alaska, USA
god of war and sky; counterpart of Norse Tyr. Norse deity
(Roman mythology) god of the sea; counterpart of Greek Poseidon. Roman god of water and the sea
leader of the American Revolution who proposed the resolution calling for independence of the American Colonies (1732-1794). Founding Father of the United States
United States actor; husband of Georgiana Emma Barrymore and father of Ethel Barrymore and John Barrymore and Lionel Barrymore (1847-1905). British actor
baseball player who died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (1903-1941). American baseball player
English dramatist and poet who was the first real poet laureate of England (1572-1637). English writer
American Civil War; a series of indecisive battles in Grant's campaign (1864) against Lee in which both armies suffered terrible losses. conflict
United States playwright; her plays were often indictments of injustice (1905-1984). American dramatist and screenwriter
the Italian pope who fought to establish the supremacy of the pope over the Roman Catholic Church and the supremacy of the church over the state (1020-1085). Pope from 1073 to 1085
a broad strait of the North Sea between Jutland and Norway. sea between Denmark, Norway and Sweden connecting the North Sea and the Kattegatt sea area
the largest island in the Mediterranean. region of Italy
Czech novelist who wrote in German about a nightmarish world of isolated and troubled individuals (1883-1924). novelist and short story writer
British newspaper publisher and politician (born in Canada); confidant of Winston Churchill (1879-1964). Anglo-Canadian business tycoon, politician, and writer
a city in southwestern California surrounded by Los Angeles; home of many Hollywood actors. city in Los Angeles County, California, United States
a faint constellation in the southern hemisphere near Telescopium and Tucana. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
a name for the God of the Old Testament as transliterated from the Hebrew consonants YHVH. transliteration of the divine name YHVH with the vowel points of Adonai
a river that rises in central Germany and flows north to join the Elbe River. river in Germany
the capital and largest city of Albania in the center of the country. capital city of Albania
an island republic in the west central Pacific just to the south of the equator. island nation in the central Pacific Ocean
a city in Veneto. capital of the province Padua, Veneto, Italy
a range of mountains in southern Siberia to the west of Lake Baikal; contain important mineral deposits. mountain range
a university in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. public research university in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States
an area of woods and heathland in southern Hampshire that was set aside by William I as Crown property in 1079; originally a royal hunting ground but now administered as parkland; noted for its ponies. area of southern England
(Greek mythology) the king of Mycenae and father of Agamemnon and of Menelaus. king of Mycenae, father of Agamemnon
a river in northeastern England that flows generally southeastward to join the Trent River and form the Humber. river in North Yorkshire, England
United States inventor who built early sewing machines and won suits for patent infringement against other manufacturers (including Isaac M. Singer) (1819-1867). American inventor
evil storm god represented as a black bird. demon of Mesopatamian mythology, with the body of an eagle and the head of a lion
the brightest star in the sky; in Canis Major. brightest star in the night sky
Roman general who was governor of Britain and extended Roman rule north to the Firth of Forth (37-93). Roman governor and general, AD 40-93
Italian sculptor and architect of the baroque period in Italy; designed many churches and chapels and tombs and fountains (1598-1680). Italian artist
suave and witty English statesman remembered mostly for letters to his son (1694-1773). British statesman and man of letters
one of the 7 gods of happiness. figure in Buddhist and East Asian religious traditions
a hill in eastern Cuba (near Santiago de Cuba) that was captured during the Spanish-American War. series of hills to the east of Santiago, Cuba, running north to south and scene of a battle
a port city in northeastern England on the River Tyne; a center for coal exports (giving rise to the expression `carry coals to Newcastle' meaning to do something unnecessary). city in Tyne and Wear, North East England
an American operation in World War I (1918); American troops under Pershing drove back the German armies which were saved only by the armistice on November 11. military campaign during World War I
United States general who was killed along with all his command by the Sioux at the Battle of Little Bighorn (1839-1876). United States cavalry commander
(Greek mythology) a Titan who was forced by Zeus to bear the sky on his shoulders. deity in Greek mythology
North Island and South Island and adjacent small islands in the South Pacific. constitutional monarchy in Oceania
United States actor; son of Maurice Barrymore and Georgiana Barrymore (1878-1954). American actor, director, screenwriter
a river in southwestern England rising in Gloucestershire and flowing through Bristol to empty into the estuary of the Severn. river in in the south west of England
an ancient port on the Mediterranean; the capital and largest city of Algeria. capital city of Algeria
a city in eastern Pennsylvania; an industrial and commercial center. county seat city in Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, USA
a town in northeastern Minnesota in the Mesabi Range. city in Saint Louis County, Minnesota, United States
king of Persia who was defeated by Alexander the Great; his murder effectively ended the Persian Empire (died in 330 BC). King of the Achaemenid Empire
a former province of northwestern France on the English channel; divided into Haute-Normandie and Basse-Normandie. historical province and cultural region now in France and the Channel Islands
a town in Belarus that was the center of the Chabad movement for a brief period during the 19th century. Village located in the Smolensk Oblast in Russia
an island summer resort off of Cape Cod. island in the United States of America
the capital and largest city of El Salvador; has suffered from recurrent earthquakes. capital of El Salvador
an engineering university in Pittsburgh. private research university in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States
an industrial city in the European part of Russia. city in the Republic of Tatarstan, Russia
English actor of Shakespearean roles who was also noted for appearances in films (1904-2000). English actor and theatre director
a town in central Kansas to the west of Topeka; home of Dwight D. Eisenhower. city in Kansas, United States
United States film actress (1908-1989). American film, television and stage actress
the capital of Emilia-Romagna; located in northern Italy to the east of the Apennines. city in Emilia-Romagna, Italy
a machine-readable lexical database organized by meanings; developed at Princeton University. computational lexicon of English
an Alpine mountain pass connecting Innsbruck in Austria with Bolzano in Italy that has long been a route for trade and for invasions. mountain pass at the international border between Austria and Italy
a republic in southeastern Asia on an archipelago including more than 13,000 islands; achieved independence from the Netherlands in 1945; the principal oil producer in the Far East and Pacific regions. republic in Southeast Asia
a national park in California famous for its waterfalls and rock formations. National Park in California, United States
the capital of Mali; located in the south on the Niger. capital of Mali
an Algerian extremist Islamic offshoot of the Armed Islamic Group; now the largest and most active armed terrorist group in Algeria that seeks to overthrow the government; a major source of support and recruitment for al-Qaeda operations in Europe and northern Africa. Islamist militia
an ancient kingdom in northern Mesopotamia which is in present-day Iraq. Roman province
the 5th largest island and the largest island of Arctic Canada; lies between Greenland and Hudson Bay. mostly Arctic island in Nunavut, Canada
French writer remembered for his swashbuckling historical tales (1802-1870). French writer and dramatist
35th President of the United States; established the Peace Corps; assassinated in Dallas (1917-1963). 35th President of the United States of America
a port city in southwestern Turkey on the Gulf of Antalya. popular touristic city in Turkey at Mediterranean Coast
a republic in Asia to the east of the Caspian Sea and to the south of Kazakhstan and to the north of Iran; an Asian soviet from 1925 to 1991. republic in Central Asia
English playwright remembered for his comedies (1670-1729). British writer
British filmmaker (born in Hungary) (1893-1956). Hungarian-born British film producer and director
son of Edward II and King of England from 1327-1377; his claim to the French throne provoked the Hundred Years' War; his reign was marked by an epidemic of the Black Plague and by the emergence of the House of Commons as the powerful arm of British Parliament (1312-1377). King of England
Italian film actress (born in 1934). Italian actress
the isthmus that connects Central America and South America; was formerly called the Isthmus of Darien. narrow landstrip in Panama
United States film actor and director (born in 1927). American-born Bahamian actor, film director, author, and diplomat
Israeli statesman (born in Russia) (1898-1978). former prime minister of Israel
a mountain in the Himalayas in Nepal (27,790 feet high). Himalayan mountain
Italian poet (born in France) (1313-1375). Italian author and poet
German neoclassical composer and conductor who believed that music should have a social purpose (1895-1963). German-born American composer, violist, violinist, teacher and conductor
Spaniard and Roman Catholic theologian and founder of the Society of Jesus; a leading opponent of the Reformation (1491-1556). Catholic Saint, founder of the Society of Jesus (the Jesuits)
a metropolitan county in northern England. metropolitan and ceremonial county in England
a large monumental statue symbolizing liberty on Liberty Island in New York Bay. sculpture on Liberty Island in New York Harbor in New York City, New York, United States
German writer of fantastic tales (1776-1822). German Romantic author
twin skyscrapers built in Kuala Lumpur in 1997; 1482 feet high. Twin skyscrapers in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
a midwestern state in north central United States. state of the United States of America
a mountain in the Kunlun range in China (25,340 feet high). mountain
a town in northeastern Maryland. city in Harford County, Maryland, United States
region including the Caribbean Islands. region to the center-east of America composed of many islands and of coastal regions of continental countries surrounding the Caribbean Sea
a commercial center and river port in western Germany on the Rhine River; flourished during the 15th century as a member of the Hanseatic League. city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany
the eighth sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about October 23 to November 21. zodiac constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
an expert on cooking whose cookbook has undergone many editions (1857-1915). American chef
(Greek mythology) one of the heroes who sailed with Jason in search of the Golden Fleece. hero part of a band in Greek mythology
(New Testament) the Apostle closely associated with St. Paul and traditionally assumed to be the author of the third Gospel. one of the four evangelists
a city in northeastern Massachusetts; site of the witchcraft trials in 1692. city in Massachusetts, United States
United States frontiersman and Tennessee politician who died at the siege of the Alamo (1786-1836). American politician
the 10th and last incarnation of Vishnu. Tenth incarnation of Vishnu in Hinduism
French mathematician (born in Poland) noted for inventing fractals (born in 1924). Polish-born, French and American mathematician
an autonomous province of Georgia on the Black Sea; a strong independence movement has resulted in much instability. autonomous region in Georgia and breakaway republic which is not recognized internationally
an estuary in central northeastern England formed by the Ouse River and the Trent River. large tidal estuary in England
an ancient Greek city on the slopes of Mount Parnassus; site of the oracle of Delphi. archaeological site and town in Greece
a suspension bridge across Puget Sound at Tacoma. suspension bridge that collapsed in 1940
Austrian architect known for his use of rectilinear units (1870-1956). Austrian architect and product designer
a bay of the North Atlantic; fed by the Hudson River. bays in New York, USA
Apache leader of the resistance to United States troops in Arizona (1812-1874). Apache tribe chief
a desert area that is part of the Mojave Desert in eastern California and southwestern Nevada; contains the lowest point in North America. desert valley located in Eastern California
United States financier who negotiated a treaty with the Soviet Union banning tests of nuclear weapons (1891-1986). American businessman, politician and diplomat
(Greek mythology) a tragic king of Thebes who unknowingly killed his father Laius and married his mother Jocasta; the subject of the drama `Oedipus Rex' by Sophocles. mythological king of Thebes
United States jurist who served on the United States Supreme Court as chief justice (1872-1946). United States federal judge
port city of Denmark in eastern Jutland. city in Denmark
United States athlete and Black American whose success in the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin outraged Hitler (1913-1980). American track and field athlete
capital and largest city of Lebanon; located in western Lebanon on the Mediterranean. capital of Lebanon
(Old Testament) first king of the northern kingdom of Israel who led Israel into sin (10th century BC). King of Israel
a battle in 1644 in which the Parliamentarians under the earl of Manchester defeated the Royalists under Prince Rupert. battle
the capital and largest city of Nepal. capital of Nepal
a port on the Gulf of Oman and capital of the sultanate of Oman. capital of Oman
a region in southeastern Italy on the Adriatic. region of Italy
an ancient Greek city located in the western part of what is now modern Turkey; the technique of preparing sheepskins as parchment was developed here. ancient Greek city in modern-day Turkey
British economist (born in India) whose report on social insurance provided the basis for most of the social legislation on which the welfare state in the United Kingdom is based (1879-1963). Economist and social reformer
god of the winds in ancient mythology. group of characters in Greek mythology
United States frontierswoman and legendary figure of the Wild West noted for her marksmanship (1852-1903). American scout and frontierswoman
capital of the Ivory Coast. capital city of C?te d'Ivoire
a chain of islands forming a province of Indonesia to the east of Java; includes Bali and Timor. group of islands in the southern Maritime Southeast Asia
English writer of stories for children (1882-1956). British author known for creating Winnie-the-Pooh
(Greek mythology) an Athenian inventor who built the labyrinth of Minos; to escape the labyrinth he fashioned wings for himself and his son Icarus. Greek mythological figure
a channel separating Manhattan from the Bronx. tidal strait in New York City, USA
(Old Testament) the first of the major Hebrew prophets (8th century BC). Hebrew prophet
French landscape gardener who designed many formal gardens including the parks of Versailles (1613-1700). French landscape architect and the principal gardener of King Louis XIV of France
god of the Moon; counterpart of the Akkadian Sin. god of the moon in Mesopotamian mythology
the private chapel of the popes in Rome; it was built by and named after Sixtus IV in 1473. Chapel in the Apostolic Palace
a chain of islands including Borneo and Celebes and Java and Sumatra. island group
a republic in Central America; one of the most politically stable countries in Latin America. country in Central America
a tributary of the Ohio River in West Virginia. tributary of Ohio River in West Virginia, United States
German composer of instrumental music (especially symphonic and chamber music); continued to compose after he lost his hearing (1770-1827). German classical and romantic composer
French neurologist (1857-1904). French physician
a group of seven bright stars in the constellation Ursa Major. grouping of stars, part of Ursa Major
United States jazz pianist who was one of the founders of the bebop style (1917-1982). American jazz pianist and composer
United States tennis player (born in Yugoslavia in 1973). Yugoslav and American tennis player
a republic in extreme eastern Africa on the Somali peninsula; subject to tribal warfare. federal republic in Africa
Austrian general who fought for the Hapsburgs during the Thirty Years' War (1583-1634). Czech marshal, duke and nobleman
a walled section of Beijing that encloses the palace that was formerly the residence of the emperor of China. Chinese imperial palace in Beijing
a province in southeastern Canada. province of Canada
14th President of the United States (1804-1869). American politician, 14th President of the United States (in office from 1853 to 1857)
a peninsula in southwestern Asia that forms the Asian part of Turkey. Asian part of Turkey
a large fishing port in northeastern England. city in the East Riding of Yorkshire, England
French royal architect who built the Tuileries Palace and Gardens in Paris for Catherine de Medicis (1515-1570). French architect of the Renaissance.
Soviet gymnast (born in 1955). Belarusian gymnast
(Sanskrit) Hindu god of fire in ancient and traditional India; one of the three chief deities of the Vedas. fire, also a Hindu deity
a town in southwest Texas on the Rio Grande to the west of San Antonio. city in Texas, USA
French sculptor of monumental female nudes (1861-1944). sculptor from France
one of the great tragedians of ancient Greece (496-406 BC). ancient Greek playwright
a national park in Virginia for the Blue Ridge Mountains. national park of the United States
(Old Testament) the son of Abraham who was cast out after the birth of Isaac; considered the forebear of 12 Arabian tribes. son of Abraham
the first major discourse delivered by Jesus (Matthew 5-7 and Luke 6:20-49). collection of sayings and teachings of Jesus
English biochemist who determined the sequence of amino acids in insulin and who invented a technique to determine the genetic sequence of an organism (born in 1918). British biochemist
Athenian lawmaker whose code of laws prescribed death for almost every offense (circa 7th century BC). first legislator of Athens in Ancient Greece
the first of three divisions of the Hebrew Scriptures comprising the first five books of the Hebrew Bible considered as a unit. Jewish religious text
English prelate and theologian who (with John Keble and Edward Pusey) founded the Oxford movement; Newman later turned to Roman Catholicism and became a cardinal (1801-1890). English cleric and cardinal
an Arctic territory in northern Canada created in 1999 and governed solely by the Inuit; includes the eastern part of what was the Northwest Territories and most of the islands of the Arctic Archipelago. territory of Canada
(Greek mythology) god of love; son of Aphrodite; identified with Roman Cupid. god of love in Greek mythology
Swedish dramatist and novelist (1849-1912). Swedish playwright, novelist, poet, essayist and painter
Greek Orthodox bishop and archbishop of Cyprus and the first president of independent Cyprus (1913-1977). Archbishop and 1st President of Cyprus
an ancient kingdom (later a Roman province) in North Africa in an area corresponding roughly to present-day Algeria. Berber-Libyan kingdom
a medieval country in northern Europe that included regions now parts of northern France and Belgium and southwestern Netherlands. Dutch-speaking northern portion of Belgium
Swedish astronomer who devised the centigrade thermometer (1701-1744). Swedish astronomer, physicist, and naturalist
an island in Indonesia to the south of Borneo; one of the world's most densely populated regions. island of Indonesia
United States geneticist who published the complete base sequences for all the genes of a free-living organism, the influenza bacterium; later led team that developed a first draft of the entire human genome (born in 1946). American biochemist
the series of wars fought intermittently between France and England; 1337-1453. series of conflicts from 1337 to 1453 between France and England
a town in north central Algeria. main city of Batna Province, Algeria
British chemist who identified carbon dioxide and who formulated the concepts of specific heat and latent heat (1728-1799). British chemist
the largest city in New Mexico; located in central New Mexico on the Rio Grande river. city in New Mexico, USA
English ballet dancer (born in 1910). English ballerina and a choreographer, director and teacher of classical ballet
a midwestern state in north central United States in the Great Lakes region. state of the United States of America
a city in west central Washington on an arm of Puget Sound to the south of Seattle. county seat of Pierce County, Washington, United States
the hero of William Shakespeare's tragedy who was betrayed and mistreated by two of his scheming daughters. Mythical King of the Britons
Polish prelate who persuaded the Soviet to allow greater religious freedom in Poland (1901-1981). Polish cardiinal
an arm of the southern Pacific Ocean between southeastern Australia and New Zealand. sea between Australia and New Zealand
the divine word of God; the second person in the Trinity (incarnate in Jesus). philosophical concept named for the Greek word
English linguist who contributed to linguistic semantics and to prosodic phonology and who was noted for his insistence on studying both sound and meaning in context (1890-1960). English linguist
a country in northeastern Africa on the Somali peninsula; formerly under French control but became independent in 1997. country in Africa
a river that flows from central Wyoming to the Yellowstone River in southern Montana. river in the United States of America
a river in central England that flows through Stratford-on-Avon and empties into the Severn. river in Warwickshire, UK
(classical mythology) god of wine; equivalent of Dionysus. Greek god of winemaking and wine
a town in southern Georgia near the Florida border. county seat of Lowndes County, Georgia, United States
city in southwestern Belgium; center of an industrial region. city in Hainaut, Belgium
freshwater port and largest city in Oregon; located in northwestern Oregon on the Willamette River which divides the city into east and west sections; renowned for its beautiful natural setting among the mountains. city in Oregon, USA
United States filmmaker (born in 1934). American film director, producer and actor
French soldier and writer whose descriptions of sexual perversion gave rise to the term `sadism' (1740-1814). novelist and philosopher
King of the Germans and Holy Roman Emperor (912-973). German king and first emperor of the Ottonian empire
(Greek mythology) Greek goddess of the night; daughter of Chaos; counterpart of Roman Nox. Greek goddess of the night
thoroughbred that won the triple crown in 1948. Thoroughbred race horse; winner of US Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing in 1948
Hindu goddess of learning and the arts. the Hindu goddess of arts, music and knowledge
a national park in California that includes Mount Whitney. national park in the Sierra Nevada mountains, California, USA
a province of southern China. province of China
French soldier who served under George Washington in the American Revolution (1757-1834). French general and politician.
a resort city in western Florida; located on Tampa Bay on the Gulf of Mexico. county seat of Hillsborough County, Florida, United States
an empire in southern Asia created by Cyrus the Great in the 6th century BC and destroyed by Alexander the Great in the 4th century BC. ancient empire, comprising many dynasties
Russian bacteriologist in France who formulated the theory of phagocytosis (1845-1916). Ukrainian, Russian and French immunologist, embryologist, biologist, Nobel laureat
United States jazz musician who moved from ragtime to New Orleans jazz (1885-1941). American ragtime and jazz pianist, bandleader and composer
English historian noted for his works on the history of English law (1850-1906). British historian
British violinist (born in the United States) who began his career as a child prodigy in the 1920s (1916-1999). American violinist and conductor
king of France who founded the Valois dynasty; his dispute with Edward III over his succession led to the Hundred Years' War (1293-1350). King of France
United States social reformer who proposed an old-age pension sponsored by the federal government; his plan was a precursor to Social Security (1867-1960). American politician
United States actor and filmmaker who starred with Paul Newman in several films (born in 1936). American actor and film director
a republic in the Middle East in western Asia; the ancient civilization of Mesopotamia was in the area now known as Iraq. republic in Western Asia
(Roman Catholic Church) archbishop of Canterbury from 1162 to 1170; murdered following his opposition to Henry II's attempts to control the clergy (1118-1170). Chancellor of England, Archbishop of Canterbury, Saint
United States senator who is remembered for his creation of grants that fund exchange programs of teachers and students between the United States and other countries (1905-1995). American politician
a drug cartel in Colombia; controlled the production of cocaine from the 1970s until 1993 when the leader was killed. former Colombian drug cartel
Swiss mathematician (1654-1705). Swiss mathematician
experimental expatriate United States writer (1874-1946). American writer, poet
a New Testament book attributed to Saint James the Apostle. book of the Bible
Greek tragedian; the father of Greek tragic drama (525-456 BC). ancient Athenian playwright
one of the islands of Saint Christopher-Nevis. island in the Caribbean Sea
the second brightest star in Orion. star in the constellation of Orion
a port city in northwestern France (in Brittany); the chief naval station of France. commune in Finist릾렧e, France
the deportation of the Jews to Babylonia by Nebuchadnezzar in 586 BC. Period in Jewish history during which a number of people from the ancient Kingdom of Judah were captives in Babylonia
a bright crater on the Moon. Crater
a Crusade from 1189 to 1192 led by Richard I and the king of France that failed because an army torn by dissensions and fighting on foreign soil could not succeed against forces united by religious zeal. attempt by European leaders to reconquer the Holy Land from Saladin
United States botanist who specialized in North American flora and who was an early supporter of Darwin's theories of evolution (1810-1888). American botanist
a former Dutch colony in South America; now a part of Guyana. historic region of the Guianas
an industrial town in north central Alabama. city in and the county seat of Etowah County in the U.S. state of Alabama
a town in southwestern Montana; center for mining copper. town in Montana, United States
United States electrical engineer and inventor (born in Croatia but of Serbian descent) who discovered the principles of alternating currents and developed the first alternating-current induction motor and the Tesla coil and several forms of oscillators (1856-1943). American inventor
Syrian who was a Christian bishop and Patriarch of Constantinople in the early fifth century; one of the major heresies concerning the doctrine of the hypostasis of Christ was named after him (died in 451). Archbishop of Constantinople
a republic in southern Europe on the Italian Peninsula; was the core of the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire between the 4th century BC and the 5th century AD. republic in Southern Europe, member of the European Union
United States poet best known for his nostalgic poems about New England (1807-1892). American Quaker poet and advocate of the abolition of slavery
a Mid-Atlantic state; one of the original 13 colonies. state of the United States
a city in Argentina, to the west of Buenos Aires. city in the province of Buenos Aires in Argentina
a university town in northeast Georgia. county seat of Clarke County, Georgia, United States
a series of conflicts (1618-1648) between Protestants and Catholics starting in Germany and spreading until France and Denmark and Sweden were opposing the Holy Roman Empire and Spain. war principally fought in Central Europe from 1618 to 1648
French writer of novels about women (1873-1954). French novelist: writer of Gigi
a popular island resort in the Netherlands Antilles. island in the Caribbean, part of the Netherlands
a city in the western Netherlands; residence of the Pilgrim Fathers for 11 years before they sailed for America in 1620. municipality in South Holland, Netherlands
the Babylonian father of the gods; identified with Assyrian Ashur; in Sumerian the name signifies `the totality of the upper world'. deity
German physicist who invented the mercury thermometer and developed the scale of temperature that bears his name (1686-1736). German-Polish physicist and engineer
an island group of French Polynesia in the South Pacific to the east of Samoa. archipelago of French Polynesia
the Spaniard who as Grand Inquisitor was responsible for the death of thousands of Jews and suspected witches during the Spanish Inquisition (1420-1498). Grand Inquisitor of Spain
the great mother goddess; worshipped also as Aruru and Mama and Nintu. sumerian goddess
a republic in central Africa; formerly controlled by Great Britain and called Northern Rhodesia until it gained independence within the commonwealth in 1964. republic in southern Africa
an ancient Mediterranean seaport that was a thriving city state in Phoenicia during the second millennium BC; was the chief port for the export of papyrus; located in Lebanon to the north of Beirut; now partially excavated. Mediterranean city in the Mount Lebanon Governorate, Lebanon
United States general who commanded United States forces in Europe from 1945 to 1949 and who oversaw the Berlin airlift (1897-1978). United States general
(Roman mythology) Roman god of death; counterpart of Thanatos. personification of death in Roman mythology
ice covered waters surrounding the North Pole; mostly covered with solid ice or with ice floes and icebergs. sea in the Arctic
a desert region of central Australia. desert in Central Australia
United States jazz musician (1904-1943). American jazz pianist and composer
Swedish economist (1898-1987). Swedish economist
(Norse mythology) goddess of the dead and queen of the underworld. Norse mythical character
a major river of western Siberia; flows generally northward and westward to the Gulf of Ob and the Kara Sea. river in Russia, the second longest river in Asia
French astrologer who wrote cryptic predictions whose interpretations are still being debated (1503-1566). French apothecary and reputed seer
a small region of ancient Greece where the Doric dialect was spoken. Mountain district in ancient Greece
French physicist for whom the Pitot tube was named (1695-1771). French hydraulic engineer
a port city in southeastern Virginia at the mouth of the James River off Hampton Roads; large shipyards. independent city in Virginia, United States
(Greek mythology) a woman who was turned into a kingfisher. Greek mythological figure;  daughter of Aeolus
the main river of Myanmar rising in the north and flowing south through the length of Burma to empty into the Andaman Sea. river in Burma
British writer of novels who was born in India; one of his novels is regarded as blasphemous by Muslims and a fatwa was issued condemning him to death (born in 1947). British Indian novelist and essayist
United States general who was commander of all Union troops in the West; he captured Atlanta and led a destructive march to the sea that cut the Confederacy in two (1820-1891). American General, businessman, educator, and author
Dutch portrait and genre painter who endowed his portraits with vitality and humor (1580?-1666). painter from the Northern Netherlands
a bay of the Gulf of Mexico; fed by the Mobile River. bay
an ancient kingdom in Asia to the southeast of the Caspian Sea; it dominated southwestern Asia from about 250 BC to AD 226. region of north-eastern Iran
United States economist (born in the Netherlands) (1910-1985). Dutch American economist
a river that rises in south central New Hampshire and flows through Concord and Manchester into Massachusetts and empties into the Atlantic Ocean. river in New Hampshire and Massachusetts, United States
United States writer noted for his novels about agricultural workers (1902-1968). American writer
French political writer noted for his analysis of American institutions (1805-1859). French political thinker and historian
United States actress (1913-1990). American actress
the string of islands between North America and South America; a popular resort area. island region in the Caribbean
the capital and largest city of Rhode Island; located in northeastern Rhode Island on Narragansett Bay; site of Brown University. city in and state capital of Rhode Island, United States; county seat of Providence County
a lake between Ontario and Michigan; connected with Lake Huron and Lake Erie. lake bordering Ontario, Canada and Michigan, USA
a southeastern part of Greater London that is the site of the English national soccer stadium. area of northwest London, England
a racetrack for thoroughbred racing in Elmont on Long Island; site of the Belmont Stakes. horse racing venue in New York
(Roman mythology) goddess of the hearth and its fire whose flame was tended by vestal virgins; counterpart of Greek Hestia. goddess of the hearth, home, and family in Roman religion
king of Scotland from 1306 to 1329; defeated the English army under Edward II at Bannockburn and gained recognition of Scottish independence (1274-1329). King of Scots from 1306 until his death in 1329
United States composer (born in Italy) of operas (born in 1911). Composer and librettist
Chinese communist leader (1893-1976). Chairman of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China
Italian who was famous as a magician and alchemist (1743-1795). Italian occultist
a city in northwestern Spain near the Cantabrian Mountains. municipality of Asturias, Spain
Dutch physicist who first formulated the wave theory of light (1629-1695). Dutch mathematician and natural philosopher
a self-governing territory comprising all of the Mariana Islands except Guam. American-dependent insular area in the western Pacific
wife of Siva and malevolent form of Devi. satan demon in Hindu mythology
Russian composer best known for his fifteen symphonies (1906-1975). Soviet opera composer and pianist
the boundary in ancient times between Italy and Gaul; Caesar's crossing it with his army in 49 BC was an act of war. river in northeastern Italy
English architect (1801-1865). English gardener, architect and Member of Parliament
a city in western India just off the coast of the Arabian Sea; India's 2nd largest city (after Calcutta); has the only natural deep-water harbor in western India. capital city and district in Maharashtra, India
king of Persia who subdued numerous revolutions and made peace with Sparta (?-359 BC). King of Persia
a Babylonian demigod or first man (sometimes identified with Adam). fictional character of an ancient babylonian tale
a bay of the Pacific in western California. bay on the California coast of the United States
4th President of the United States; member of the Continental Congress and rapporteur at the Constitutional Convention in 1776; helped frame the Bill of Rights (1751-1836). 4th President of the United States (1809뼰1817)
an Old Testament book containing Ezekiel's prophecies of the downfall of Jerusalem and Judah and their subsequent restoration. book of the Bible
a major South American river; arises in the Andes and flows eastward into the South Atlantic; the world's 2nd longest river (4000 miles). longest river in South America
an island in western Scotland in the Inner Hebrides to the west of Mull; site of Fingal's Cave. island of the Inner Hebrides in Argyll and Bute, Scotland
ancient Celtic god. Irish mythological character and probable deity
French field marshal who commanded the Allied armies in France during World War II (1852-1931). French general who served as Commander-in-Chief of French forces on the Western Front from the start of World War I
a city in western California on San Francisco Bay opposite San Francisco; primarily and industrial urban center. port city and county seat of Alameda County, California, United States
a city in northwestern Saudi Arabia. city in Tabuk Region, Saudi Arabia
Spanish conquistador who conquered the Incas in what is now Peru and founded the city of Lima (1475-1541). Spanish conquistador who conquered the Inca Empire
English writer who described the psychological effects of addiction to opium (1785-1859). English author
Hindu wind god. Hindu god of the air
the symbol of the power of the British monarchy. in the Commonwealth realms, corporation sole representing the United Kingdom
Italian filmmaker (born in 1940). Italian film director and screenwriter
a conspicuous crater on the Moon. lunar crater
Nicaraguan statesman (born in 1945). President of Nicaragua
a port on Alaska's southern coast from which oil is shipped to markets around the world. city in Alaska, USA
a university town in southwestern Virginia (west of Roanoke) in the Allegheny Mountains. town in Virginia
United States actress (born in England) (1899-1991). British actress
three main islands and numerous islets in the Indian Ocean between Mozambique and Madagascar. archipelago in the Indian Ocean
the state capital of Western Australia. township in Walsh County, North Dakota
a region of southwestern Italy on the Tyrrhenian Sea including the islands of Capri and Ischia. region in Southern Italy
German composer who developed the romantic style of both lyrical and classical music (1833-1897). German composer and pianist
Italian pope from 1378 to 1389 whose contested election began the Great Schism; he alienated his political allies by his ruthless treatment of his opponents (1318-1389). pope
Christian martyr; patron saint of England; hero of the legend of Saint George and the Dragon in which he slew a dragon and saved a princess (?-303). 4th-century Christian saint and martyr
English poet and craftsman (1834-1896). English textile designer, poet, novelist, translator, and socialist activist
a former province of southern South Africa that was settled by the Dutch in 1652 and ceded to Great Britain in 1814; in 1994 it was split into three new provinces of South Africa. former province of South Africa
state capital of West Virginia in the central part of the state on the Kanawha river. county seat city in Kanawha County, West Virginia, USA and West Virginia federated state capital city
capital of the state of Montana; located in western Montana. county seat in Lewis and Clark County, Montana, USA and Montana federated state capital city
Italian pope from 1676 to 1689 whose papacy was marked by the struggle with Louis XIV of France over papal authority over French Catholics; known for saintliness and canonized in 1956 (1611-1689). pope
United States collector and patron of art who built a museum in Boston to house her collection and opened it to the public in 1903 (1840-1924). American actress and patron of the arts
a major African river (one of the world's longest); flows through Congo into the South Atlantic. river in central Africa
German art historian (1866-1929). German art historian and cultural theorist
United States general who served as military director of the atomic bomb project (1896-1970). United States Army Corps of Engineers officer
the brightest star in the constellation Lyra. star in the constellation Lyra
25th President of the United States; was assassinated by an anarchist (1843-1901). American politician, 25th President of the United States (in office from 1897 to 1901)
port city on southern Honshu on Osaka Bay; a commercial and industrial center of Japan. city in Japan
Swedish chemist who discovered three new elements and determined the atomic weights of many others (1779-1848). Swedish chemist
the biblical commandments of Moses. Part of the Law of Moses appearing in Exodus 20 and Deuteronomy 5 in Hebrew Bible
United States inventor who patented the first practical adding machine (1855-1898). American businessman
a teacher and prophet born in Bethlehem and active in Nazareth; his life and sermons form the basis for Christianity (circa 4 BC - AD 29). Jewish preacher and religious leader, central figure of Christianity
an island to the south of the Malay Peninsula. republic in Southeast Asia
an absolute monarchy occupying most of the Arabian Peninsula in southwest Asia; vast oil reserves dominate the economy. kingdom in Western Asia
the western part of the Appalachian Mountains; extending from northern Pennsylvania to southwestern Virginia. mountain range
United States jazz musician who influenced the style of Louis Armstrong (1885-1938). American jazz cornet player and bandleader
(Greek mythology) the daughter of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra; persuaded her brother (Orestes) to avenge Agamemnon's death by helping her to kill Clytemnestra and her lover (Aegisthus). figure from Greek mythology
Cuban dancer and choreographer (born in 1921). Cuban prima ballerina assoluta and choreographer
king of Sweden whose losses to Napoleon I led to his being deposed in 1809 (1778-1837). King of Sweden between 1792-1809
a town in north central Ohio. city in U.S. state of Ohio and county seat of Richland County
a town on Long Island in New York; site of Belmont Park. census-designated place in Nassau County, New York
a river in central England that flows generally northeastward to join with the Ouse River and form the Humber. major river of England
English aeronautical engineer (1895-1937). aeronautical engineer; inventor of the Spitfire
French modeler (resident in England after 1802) who made wax death masks of prominent victims of the French Revolution and toured Britain with her wax models; in 1835 she opened a permanent waxworks exhibition in London (1761-1850). French artist
German Nazi architect who worked for Hitler (1905-1981). German architect, Minister of Armaments and War Production for Nazi Germany
(Old Testament) the youngest and best-loved son of Jacob and Rachel and one of the twelve forebears of the tribes of Israel. Biblical character
the largest lake in Africa and the 2nd largest fresh water lake in the world; a headwaters reservoir for the Nile River. one of African Great Lakes
a national park in Arkansas featuring ancient hot springs; bathing is said to have therapeutic effects. United States National Park in central Arkansas
United States film actor known for his portrayals of tough characters (1899-1986). American actor and dancer
a mountain range in northeastern Mexico the runs parallel to the coastline of the Gulf of Mexico. mountain range in Mexico
Russian chess master who was world champion from 1975 until 1985 when he was defeated by Gary Kasparov (born in 1951). Russian chess player
English novelist and poet and essayist whose work condemned industrial society and explored sexual relationships (1885-1930). English novelist, poet, playwright, essayist, literary critic and painter
German composer of more than 100 operas (1714-1787). composer
the former name for the geographical area of the eastern Mediterranean that is now occupied by Lebanon, Syria, and Israel. geographic and cultural region consisting of the eastern Mediterranean between Anatolia and Egypt
English surgeon (1755-1824). English surgeon, apothecary, geologist, paleontologist, and political activist
United States businessman who pioneered in radio and television broadcasting (1891-1971). American businessman and pioneer of American radio and television
United States playwright (1888-1953). American playwright, and Nobel laureate in Literature
an arm of the Atlantic Ocean between North and South America; the origin of the Gulf stream. sea of the Atlantic Ocean bounded by North, Central, and South America
a volcanic island in the Fijis. island
United States writer of novels and short stories (1890-1980). American journalist, essayist, short story writer, novelist, and political activist
a city in southeastern Sicily that was founded by Corinthians in the 8th century BC. Italian comune
United States religious leader who was the first person born in the United States to be canonized (1774-1821). first native-born American saint of the Roman Catholic Church
United States evangelist (born in Canada) noted for her extravagant religious services (1890-1944). Canadian-American evangelist and media celebrity
United States jazz trumpeter and exponent of bebop (1917-1993). American jazz trumpeter
a port in central Norway on Trondheim Fjord. city in Tr?ndelag, Norway
United States writer whose novels and short stories are a mixture of realism and satire and science fiction (born in 1922). American writer
French neurologist who tried to use hypnotism to cure hysteria (1825-1893). French neurologist
Spanish general whose armies took control of Spain in 1939 and who ruled as a dictator until his death (1892-1975). Spanish general and dictator
German physicist whose explanation of blackbody radiation in the context of quantized energy emissions initiated quantum theory (1858-1947). German theoretical physicist
Italian filmmaker (1906-1976). Italian theatre, opera and cinema director
the sun (or solar disc) which was the deity of a monotheistic cult under the Pharaoh Akhenaten. ancient Egyptian god
a city in western Kenya; commercial center of an agricultural region. city
United States basketball guard (born in 1938). American basketball player
the hills on which the ancient city of Rome was built. geographical heart of Rome, within the walls of the city
United States dancer who formed the first Black classical ballet company (born in 1934). American dancer and choreographer, co-founder of Dance Theatre of Harlem
a small town in northeastern West Virginia that was the site of a raid in 1859 by the abolitionist John Brown and his followers who captured an arsenal that was located there. town of the United States
English physician who was a pioneer in the study of the brain (1621-1675). English doctor
Scottish mathematician who invented logarithms; introduced the use of the decimal point in writing numbers (1550-1617). Scottish mathematician
a city in the European part of Russia. city in Russia, capital of the Republic of Bashkortostan
a legendary Sumerian king who was the hero of an epic collection of mythic stories. Sumerian ruler
United States golfer who won many major golf tournaments (1912-1997). American golfer
United States writer (born in 1938). American author
King of England and Ireland from 1547 to 1553; son of Henry VIII and Jane Seymour; died of tuberculosis (1537-1553). King of England, Tudor dynasty
Scottish physiologist and brother of Richard Haldane and Elizabeth Haldane; noted for research into industrial diseases (1860-1936). British physiologist
the second nearest planet to the sun; it is peculiar in that its rotation is slow and retrograde (in the opposite sense of the Earth and all other planets except Uranus); it is visible from Earth as an early `morning star' or an `evening star'. telluric planet, second closest from the Sun
the Creator; one of the three major deities in the later Hindu pantheon. deity found in Hinduism and Buddhism
Roman writer and nephew of Pliny the Elder; author of books of letters that commented on affairs of the day (62-113). Roman writer
a major port in northwestern Israel. The 3rd largest city in Israel
German archaeologist and art historian said to be the father of archaeology (1717-1768). German art historian and archaeologist
French philosopher and physician and organist who spent most of his life as a medical missionary in Gabon (1875-1965). French-German physician, theologian, musician and philosopher
the death of Jesus by crucifixion. Jesus' crucifixion is described in the four canonical gospels
a fictional duck created in animated film strips by Walt Disney. Disney cartoon character
English illustrator of several of Dickens' novels (1815-1882). British artist
Italian dancing-master for Louis XVI who was considered the greatest dancer of his day; he was the first to discard the mask in mime (1729-1808). French ballet dancer
United States sharpshooter who was featured in Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show (1860-1926). American sharpshooter and exhibition shooter
state capital of New York; located in eastern New York State on the west bank of the Hudson river. county seat of Albany County, New York, USA and New York federated state capital city
(Greek mythology) the father of Odysseus. legendary king of Ithaca
part of the Appalachians between North Carolina and Tennessee. American mountain range along North Carolina/Tennessee border
the largest city in Virginia; long overshadowed by Norfolk but growing rapidly since 1970; with 28 miles of public beaches tourism is a major factor in the economy; site of three United States Navy bases. independent city in Virginia, United States
Spanish lyric poet (1881-1958). Spanish poet
a cape on the northernmost tip of Jutland between the Skagerrak and the Kattegatt. Danish peninsula
United States suffragist who refused to pay taxes until she could vote (1792-1886). American activist, translator, author
king of the English who succeeded to the throne after his half-brother Edward the Martyr was murdered; he struggled unsuccessfully against the invading Danes (969-1016). King of England
Japanese architect (born in 1913). Japanese architect (1913-2005)
United States poet (1892-1982). American poet and Librarian of Congress
United States operatic soprano (1903-1972). singer
British writer (born in Ireland) (1892-1983). British feminist and author
a river in Nebraska that flows eastward to become a tributary of the Missouri River. river in Nebraska, United States
United States astronomer (born in the Netherlands) who studied the solar system and suggested in 1951 that there is a belt of comet-like debris at the edge of the solar system (1905-1973). Netherlands-born American astronomer
French primitive painter (1844-1910). French painter
a republic in central Europe; split into East Germany and West Germany after World War II and reunited in 1990. federal parliamentary republic in central-western Europe
the ancient kingdom of Philip II and Alexander the Great in the southeastern Balkans that is now divided among modern Macedonia and Greece and Bulgaria. Roman province
a state in northeastern Australia. state of Australia
Englishman and Quaker who founded the colony of Pennsylvania (1644-1718). English real estate entrepreneur, philosopher, early Quaker and founder of the Province of Pennsylvania
a glacial lake in central New York; one of the Finger Lakes. lake in Steuben County, New York, USA
United States comedian known for his timeing and delivery and self-effacing humor (1894-1974). American comedian, vaudeville performer, and radio, television, and film actor
United States film actor noted for his portrayals of strong silent heroes (1901-1961). American actor
a former Portuguese colony that was annexed by Indonesia in 1976; voted for independence from Indonesia in 1999 and in May 2002 became an independent nation. country in South East Asia
American general during the American Revolution (1745-1796). Continental Army general
a city in northwestern Mexico. capital and largest city in the Mexican state of Sinaloa
British actress and mistress of the prince who later became Edward VII (1853-1929). British courtesan
a river in Suriname that flows northward to the Atlantic. river in Suriname
river that rises in northwestern Georgia and flows southwest through eastern Alabama to join the Tallapoosa River near Montgomery and form the Alabama River. river in the United States of America
a town in east central Missouri. city in Missouri
Canadian physicist who bounced neutron beams off of atomic nuclei to study the structure of matter (1918-2003). Canadian physicist
United States astronomer (1835-1909). American astronomer
(Roman mythology) goddess of wisdom; counterpart of Greek Athena. Roman goddess of wisdom and sponsor of arts, trade, and defense
an ancient Roman wall built by Hadrian in the 2nd century; marked the northern boundary of the Roman Empire in Britain. defensive fortification in Roman Britain
an ancient Phoenician goddess of love and fertility; the Phoenician counterpart to Ishtar. Middle Eastern goddess, worshipped from the Bronze Age through classical antiquity
an imaginary hero of English folklore who was no taller than his father's thumb. Character in literature
an area in southwestern Asia whose sovereignty is disputed between Pakistan and India. Indian state
Welsh poet (1914-1953). Welsh poet and writer
ancient Greek philosopher who succeeded Zeno of Citium as the leader of the Stoic school (300-232 BC). ancient Greek philosopher
15th President of the United States (1791-1868). American politician, 15th President of the United States (in office from 1857 to 1861)
sister and consort of Izanami; mother of the islands and gods of Japan. goddess of Shinto religion
a landlocked mountainous republic in southeast central Asia to the north of Afghanistan; formerly an Asian soviet. republic in Central Asia
Swedish chemist (born in Germany) who discovered oxygen before Priestley did (1742-1786). Swedish chemist
a landlocked republic to the south of Russia and to the northeast of the Caspian Sea; the original Turkic-speaking inhabitants were overrun by Mongols in the 13th century; an Asian soviet from 1936 to 1991. country in Eastern Europe and Central Asia
industrial city of Belarus to the southeast of Minsk. city in Belarus
an island in the Mediterranean to the west of Italy. Mediterranean island and an autonomous region of Italy
Jesus Christ; considered by Christians to be the promised deliverer. Jewish preacher and religious leader, central figure of Christianity
from 63 million to 2 million years ago. former term for the geologic period from 65 million to 2.58 million years ago
writer who was born in the United States but lived in England (1843-1916). American novelist, short story author, and literary critic
Italian violin maker in Cremona; taught the craft to Guarneri and Stradivari (1596-1684). Italian luthier from Cremona
the capital of French Polynesia on the northwestern coast of Tahiti. capital of French Polynesia
a coastal region at the southeastern corner of the Mediterranean bordering Israel and Egypt. region on the eastern coast of the Mediterranean Sea
city in northern Austria on the Danube; noted as a cultural center. capital city of Upper Austria, Austria
the capital and largest city of Utah; located near the Great Salt Lake in north central Utah; world capital of the Mormon Church. city in and county seat of Salt Lake County and the capitol of Utah, United States
a militant offshoot of al-Fatah that is the newest and strongest and best equipped faction active in the West Bank; responsible for many deadly attacks in Israel in 2002. Palestinian armed organization
a river in Germany; rises in the Black Forest and flows north into the Rhine. right tributary of Rhine river in Germany
major English composer of the 20th century; noted for his operas (1913-1976). English composer, conductor, and pianist
a section of Brooklyn on the Atlantic; known as an amusement center. peninsula and beach in New York City, New York, USA
a fortified hilly area between southern Lebanon and southern Syria. region in the Levant
Polish author (1904-1969). Polish writer
a region in northwestern Canada where gold was discovered in 1896 but exhausted by 1910. region of Yukon, Canada
a largely agricultural county in central England. ceremonial county in England (use Q21272890 for administrative non-metropolitan county)
English author of novels and short stories who grew up in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) (born in 1919). British novelist, poet, playwright, librettist, biographer and short story writer
a historical region of southwestern India on the west coast. place in Karnataka, India
a town in northeastern South Dakota. city in and the county seat of Brown County, South Dakota, United States
a soldier of the American Revolution whose troops helped capture Fort Ticonderoga from the British (1738-1789). American general
Scottish sea captain who was hired to protect British shipping in the Indian Ocean and then was accused of piracy and hanged (1645-1701). Scottish sailor who was tried and executed for piracy after returning from a voyage to the Indian Ocean
a territory in southwestern Germany formerly ruled by the counts palatine. geographic region
United States tennis player who was the first Black to win United States and English singles championships (1943-1993). American tennis player
a geographical region to the south of the Caucasus Mountains and to the north of Turkey that comprises Georgia and Armenia and Azerbaijan. geopolitical region located on the border of Eastern Europe and Western Asia
United States lawyer and poet who wrote a poem after witnessing the British attack on Baltimore during the War of 1812; the poem was later set to music and entitled `The Star-Spangled Banner' (1779-1843). American lawyer and poet
a tributary of the Kansas River that flows from eastern Colorado eastward through Nebraska and Kansas. river in the United States of America
a battle during World War II; in December 1944 von Rundstedt launched a powerful counteroffensive in the forest at Ardennes and caught the Allies by surprise. German offensive through the Ardennes forest on the Western Front towards the end of World War II
a river flowing from Lake Erie into Lake Ontario; forms boundary between Ontario and New York. river in Canada and the USA
the sacred city of Lamaism; known as the Forbidden City for its former inaccessibility and hostility to strangers. district de Lhasa, China
English natural scientist who formulated a theory of evolution by natural selection (1809-1882). British naturalist, author of "On the origin of species, by means of natural selection"
(Greek mythology) the immortal winged horse that sprang from the blood of the slain Medusa; was tamed by Bellerophon with the help of a bridle given him by Athena; as the flying horse of the Muses it is a symbol of highflying imagination. mythological creature in Greek mythology
a book of the Old Testament that tells the story of Ruth who was not an Israelite but who married an Israelite and who stayed with her mother-in-law Naomi after her husband died. book of the Bible
French architect (born in Switzerland) (1887-1965). Swiss-French architect, designer, urbanist, and writer
a Greek epic poem (attributed to Homer) describing the siege of Troy. epic poem traditionally attributed to Homer
a quasi-religious rebel group in Uganda that terrorized and raped women and kidnapped children who were forced to serve in the army. rebel movement formed by Joseph Kony in northern Uganda in 1987, incorporating remnants of Alice Lakwena's Holy Spirit Mobile Forces/Movement and Odong Latek's Uganda People's Democratic Army
a city in northwestern West Virginia on the Ohio river. city in and county seat of Wood County, West Virginia
a buffoon in modern pantomimes; the butt of jokes. principal character found in commedia dell'arte
King of England from 1377 to 1399; he suppressed the Peasant's Revolt in 1381 but his reign was marked by popular discontent and baronial opposition in British Parliament and he was forced to abdicate in 1399 (1367-1400). King of England
a Stuart king of Scotland who married a daughter of Henry VII; when England and France went to war in 1513 he invaded England and died in defeat at Flodden (1473-1513). King of Scotland
United States composer of musical comedies (especially in collaboration with Oscar Hammerstein II and with Lorenz Hart) (1902-1979). American composer of songs and Broadway musicals
a program of space flights undertaken by US to land a man on the Moon. American human spaceflight program
(Greek mythology) the Muse of comedy and pastoral poetry. muse of comedy in Greek mythology
a former prison in London notorious for its unsanitary conditions and burnt down in riots in 1780; a new prison was built on the same spot but was torn down in 1902. former prison in London
capital and chief port of Mauritius; located on the northwestern coast of the island. city in Mauritius
the imaginary author of a collection of nursery rhymes. fictional character
a large amphitheater in Rome whose construction was begun by Vespasian about AD 75 or 80. ancient Roman amphitheatre in Rome
United States painter (born in Italy) known for his society portraits (1856-1925). American painter
United States diplomat and United Nations official (1904-1971). American diplomat
a seaway involving the Saint Lawrence River and the Great Lakes that was developed jointly by Canada and the United States; oceangoing ships can travel as far west as Lake Superior. canal
a terrorist group of Protestants who oppose any political settlement with Irish nationalists; a paramilitary group that attacks Catholic interests in Northern Ireland. loyalist paramilitary group in Northern Ireland
a town in northern Egypt; site of the oldest Egyptian pyramids. village in Giza Governorate, Egypt
a Russian river in Siberia; flows northward into the Laptev Sea. river in Russia
an indecisive naval battle in World War I (1916); fought between the British and German fleets off the northwestern coast of Denmark. 1916 naval battle during World War I
Russian poet who expressed the feelings of the post-Stalinist generation (born in 1933). Russian poet, film director, teacher
31st President of the United States; in 1929 the stock market crashed and the economy collapsed and Hoover was defeated for reelection by Franklin Roosevelt (1874-1964). 31st President of the United States of America
a national park in Colorado containing prehistoric cliff dwellings; semiarid landscape. U.S. national park in Colorado
United States ballet dancer (born in Russia) (1917-1977). American dancer
an industrial city in southern Honshu. city in Japan
a New England state; one of the original 13 colonies. state of the United States of America
a historical area and former kingdom in the Czech Republic. historical region in the Czech Republic
a battle in 490 BC in which the Athenians and their allies defeated the Persians. 490 BC battle in the Greco-Persian Wars
elected vice president and became 21st President of the United States when Garfield was assassinated (1830-1886). American politician, 21st President of the United States (in office from 1881 to 1885)
German neurologist noted for his studies of sexual deviance (1840-1902). Austrian neurologist, psychiatrist and nobleman
a town in central Montana on the Missouri river; a center of extensive hydroelectric power. town in Cascade County, Montana, United States
(Roman mythology) the goddess of fortune and good luck; counterpart of Greek Tyche. goddess of fortune
a town in eastern Pennsylvania on the Lehigh River to the northwest of Philadelphia; an important center for steel production. city in Lehigh and Northampton counties, Pennsylvania, USA
an industrial city in south central Finland. city in the region of Pirkanmaa in Finland
a peninsula in southeastern Asia occupied by parts of Malaysia and Thailand and Myanmar. peninsula in Southeast Asia
a port city in eastern South Africa on the Indian Ocean; resort and industrial center. city in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa
a landlocked principality in the Himalayas to the northeast of India. country in South Asia
United States author remembered for novels about poverty and degeneration (1903-1987). Novelist, short story writer, travel writer, essayist
English writer of novels (1815-1882). English novelist (1815-1882)
United States dancer and cinema actor noted for his original and graceful tap dancing (1899-1987). American dancer, singer, actor, choreographer and television presenter
the historic period from about 1600 until 1750 when the baroque style of art, architecture, and music flourished in Europe. cultural movement, starting around 1600
a mountain peak in the Andes in Argentina (20,997 feet high). mountain
a mountain in the central Himalayas on the border of Tibet and Nepal (25,726 feet high). mountain in Himalaya
French novelist and critic; defender of Dreyfus (1840-1902). French writer
English writer of novels who was an active opponent of the women's suffrage movement (1851-1920). British novelist
a town in southeast Iowa. city in Iowa
Greek general and historian; student of Socrates (430-355 BC). ancient Greek historian and philosopher
French painter in the classical style (1594-1665). French painter
the seaport at Boston. estuary and harbor of Massachusetts Bay in the northeastern United States
as Charles II he was Holy Roman Emperor and as Charles I he was king of France (823-877). Holy Roman Emperor and King of West Francia
English writer (born in France) of novels and short stories (1874-1965). English playwright, novelist, short story writer
a prosperous and industrialized province in central Canada. province of Canada
a mountain in the Andes in Argentina (22,546 feet high). mountain in province de La Rioja, Argentine
an industrial city of northeastern China in Hebei province. prefecture-level city in Hebei, China
the capital and largest city of Myanmar; located in the south near the Irrawaddy river delta. former capital of Myanmar (Burma) and the current capital of Yangon Region
United States poet killed in World War I (1888-1916). American poet
an inlet of the North Sea on the northeast coast of Scotland. inlet near Inverness, Scotland
a landlocked constitutional monarchy in southern Africa; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1966. kingdom in southern Africa
a major port of entry and the largest city in Washington; located in west central Washington on the protected waters of Puget Sound with the snow-capped peaks of the Cascade Range and Mount Ranier visible to the south and east; an aerospace and computer center; site of the University of Washington. county seat of King County, Washington, United States
a state in eastern India. Indian state
United States screenwriter who was blacklisted and imprisoned for refusing to cooperate with congressional investigations of communism in America (1905-1976). American screenwriter and novelist
university founded in 1859 by Peter Cooper to offer free courses in the arts and sciences. college in New York City
Irish writer whose pen name was A.E. (1867-1935). Irish writer, editor, critic, poet, and artistic painter
a statesman of Florence who advocated a strong central government (1469-1527). Italian politician, writer and author
the capital and largest city of Dominica. capital of Dominica
United States physicist (1901-1967). physicist, inventor of Van de Graaff generator
a playwright and novelist (born in Ireland) who lived in France; wrote plays for the theater of the absurd (1906-1989). Irish novelist, playwright, and poet
a city on Lake Erie in western New York (near Niagara Falls). county seat city in Erie County, New York, USA
in 1214 the French under Philip Augustus defeated a coalition formed against him in one of the greatest battles of the middle ages. commune in Nord, France
English author (born in France) remembered especially for his verse for children (1870-1953). writer
painter (born in Germany, resident of France and the United States) who was a cofounder of dadaism; developed the technique of collage (1891-1976). German painter, sculptor and graphic artist
an Italian-speaking region of southern Switzerland. canton of Switzerland
the central and largest of the four main islands of Japan; between the Sea of Japan and the Pacific Ocean; regarded as the Japanese mainland. largest island of Japan
general who commanded the Carthaginian army in the second Punic War; crossed the Alps and defeated the Romans but was recalled to defend Carthage and was defeated (247-182 BC). military commander of Carthage during the Second Punic War
an ancient seaport in northwestern Israel; an important Roman city in ancient Palestine. modern day town in Israel
a town in southern Oregon near the California border. city in and county seat of Klamath County, Oregon, United States
United States physicist (born in Germany) noted for research in astrophysics and nuclear physics (1906-2005). German-American nuclear physicist (1967 Nobel Prize)
a battle in the War of the Grand Alliance in Ireland in 1690; William III defeated the deposed James II and so ended the Catholicism that had been reintroduced in England by the Stuarts. battle
a group of about 80 coral islands in French Polynesia. archipelago in French Polynesia
the capital and largest city of Uganda on the north shore of Lake Victoria. capital of Uganda
the boy whose upbringing was described by Jean-Jacques Rousseau. book by Jean-Jacques Rousseau
a river in Ontario that flows northeast into Hudson Bay. river in Ontario, Canada
(Greek mythology) a box that Zeus gave to Pandora with instructions that she not open it; she gave in to her curiosity and opened it; all the miseries and evils flew out to afflict mankind. mythic artifact
United States psychologist who developed client-centered therapy (1902-1987). American psychologist
English writer (1865-1948). British writer
a province in north-central China; formerly part of the Silk Road to Turkistan and India and Persia. province of China
(Arthurian legend) a nephew of Arthur and one of the knights of the Round Table. King Arthur's nephew and a Knight of the Round Table in the Arthurian legend
United States anthropologist (1887-1948). American anthropologist and folklorologist
Italian violinist and composer of violin concertos (1653-1713). Italian violinist and composer
(Greek mythology) the oracle at Delphi where a priestess supposedly delivered messages from Apollo to those who sought advice; the messages were usually obscure or ambiguous. priestess of the Temple of Apollo at Delphi
a town in eastern Alabama. city in Macon County, Alabama, United States
(Norse mythology) one of the maidens of Odin who chose heroes to be slain in battle and conducted them to Valhalla. one of a host of female figures who decide which soldiers die in battle and which live
emperor of Japan who encouraged the modernization of Japan (1852-1912). Emperor of Japan from 1867 until 1912
United States coloratura soprano (born in France) (1904-1976). American opera singer and actress
Scottish chemist and physicist noted for his work in cryogenics and his invention of the Dewar flask (1842-1923). Scottish chemist and physicist
the southern part of France. geographic region
the revolution led by Fidel Castro and a small band of guerrilla fighters against a corrupt dictatorship in Cuba; 1956-1959. revolution in Cuba culminating in 1959
an arm of the Mediterranean between Greece and Turkey; a main trade route for the ancient civilizations of Crete and Greece and Rome and Persia. part of the Mediterranean Sea, between the Greek mainland, the Turkish mainland, Crete, and Rhodes
memorial building in Washington containing a large marble statue of Abraham Lincoln. American national monument
United States actress in many silent films (1899-1983). American actress
(Old Testament) a giant Philistine warrior who was slain by David with a slingshot. giant Philistine warrior, said to be defeated by David in the First Book of Samuel and by Elhanan in the Second Book of Samuel (clarified by 1 Chronicles to be actually Goliath's brother)
United States psychologist noted for his work in child development (1880-1961). psychologist and pediatricia
Bolshevik leader in Russia who advocated gradual collectivism of the farms; was executed in a purge by Stalin (1888-1938). Soviet politician
United States playwright who collaborated with George S. Kaufman (1904-1961). Playwright, screenwriter, theatrical director and memoirist
woman whose dancing beguiled Herod into giving her the head of John the Baptist. daughter of Herodias
United States general who played an important role in the Allied victory in World War II (1893-1981). United States Army field commander during World War II
German physicist who with James Franck proved the existence of the stationary energy states postulated by Bohr (1887-1975). German physicist
Italian pope from 1769 to 1774 who lost whatever support remained of Catholic Europe, causing the church to fall into the hands of secular princes (1705-1774). pope
more than 40 northeastern Virgin Islands (15 inhabited); a dependent territory of the United Kingdom. British overseas territory in the Caribbean
a narrow strait separating the North Island and South Island in New Zealand. strait between the North and South Islands of New Zealand
a bay of the Black Sea between Russia and the Ukraine. sea on the south of Eastern Europe
the era of Islam's ascendancy from the death of Mohammed until the 13th century; some Moslems still maintain that the Moslem world must always have a calif as head of the community. Islamic form of government, considered a successor state to the realm of Muhammad
American Revolutionary leader and patriot; an organizer of the Boston Tea Party and signer of the Declaration of Independence (1722-1803). American statesman, political philosopher, governor of Massachusetts and Founding Father of the United States
a giant planet with a ring of ice particles; the 8th planet from the sun is the most remote of the gas giants. eighth and farthest observed planet from the Sun
British actress (born in Canada) (1898-1989). Canadian actress
French actress (1844-1923). French actress
a river formed by the confluence of two other rivers near Knoxville; it follows a U-shaped course to become a tributary of the Ohio River in western Kentucky. river in the United States, its largest city is Knoxville, TN
a republic in eastern Africa; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1963; major archeological discoveries have been made in the Great Rift Valley in Kenya. republic in East Africa
king of the English who led resistance to Canute but was defeated and forced to divide the kingdom with Canute (980-1016). King of the English, Wessex dynasty
United States writer (1860-1938). American writer
Roman Emperor from 286 until he abdicated in 305; when Diocletian divided the Roman Empire in 286 Maximian became emperor in the west (died in 311). Roman emperor
the chief city of ancient Mesopotamia and capital of the ancient kingdom of Babylonia. archaeological site in Iraq
United States lawyer and politician who advocated free silver and prosecuted John Scopes (1925) for teaching evolution in a Tennessee high school (1860-1925). United States Secretary of State
a period during the 1930s when there was a worldwide economic depression and mass unemployment. 20th-century worldwide economic depression
a military dictatorship in northern Africa on the Mediterranean; consists almost entirely of desert; a major exporter of petroleum. country in north Africa
Kenyan statesman and the first president of independent Kenya (1893-1978). First prime minister and first president of Kenya
English writer noted for his elaborate style (1554-1606). English politician
capital of Armenia. capital of Armenia
Canadian politician who served as prime minister (1939-). 16th Prime Minister of Canada
(Roman mythology) ancient rural deity; later considered a counterpart of Greek Pan. Roman horned god of the forest, plains and fields
a rabbit that delivers Easter eggs. folkloric figure and symbol of Easter
English potter who started a pottery famous for its bone china (1754-1827). English potter (1733-1797)
a city in southeastern Congo near the border with Zambia; a copper mining center; former name (until 1966) was Elisabethville. second largest city in Democratic Republic of the Congo
a mountain peak in northeast Greece near the Aegean coast; believed by ancient Greeks to be the dwelling place of the gods (9,570 feet high). mountain of Greece
United States writer (born in 1944). American author and activist
a battle in 937 when Athelstan defeated the Scots. important victory for King Athelstan of England
the last book of the New Testament; contains visionary descriptions of heaven and of conflicts between good and evil and of the end of the world; attributed to Saint John the Apostle. Final book of the New Testament
a range of mountains in Australia that forms the southern end of the Great Dividing Range. highest mountain range in Australia
a South American river that arises in southern Brazil and flows south to the Rio de la Plata; the northern section forms the boundary between Argentina and Brazil and the southern section forms the boundary between Argentina and Uruguay. river in South America
United States lithographer who (with his partner James Ives) produced thousands of prints signed `Currier & Ives' (1813-1888). American lithographer
Dutch jurist and diplomat whose writings established the basis of modern international law (1583-1645). Dutch jurist and scholar
a group of island in eastern Indonesia between Celebes and New Guinea; settled by the Portuguese but taken by the Dutch who made them the center for a spice monopoly, at which time they were known as Spice Islands. archipelago within Indonesia
a rocky headland belonging to Chile at the southernmost tip of South America (south of Tierra del Fuego). headland of the Tierra del Fuego archipelago located in Chile
a planetoid of rock and ice about three-quarters the size of Pluto discovered in 2003; the most distant object known to orbit around the sun. dwarf planet
an imaginary elephant that appears in a series of French books for children. fictional character
the mint that manufactures and distributes United States coins for circulation through Federal Reserve Banks; processes gold and silver bullion. produces circulating coinage for the United States
a community of South American Indians in Peru who were formerly the ruling class of the Incan Empire. ethnic group
king of the Huns; the most successful barbarian invader of the Roman Empire (406-453). King of the Hunnic Empire
outstanding United States tennis player (born in 1952). American tennis player
city in central South Africa; center for diamond mining and diamond marketing. city in the Northern Cape, South Africa
capital of Swaziland; located in northwestern Swaziland. capital of Swaziland
a university in Ithaca, New York. private university in Ithaca (New York, US)
a constellation outside the zodiac that rotates around the North Star. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere, containing the northern celestial pole
German philosopher who argued that cultures grow and decay in cycles (1880-1936). German historian and philosopher
Englishman and romantic poet (1792-1822). English Romantic poet
English classical scholar noted for his translations of Plato and Aristotle (1817-1893). Theologian, classical scholar, and academic administrator
a town in central Algeria in the Atlas Mountains. town in Adrar Province, Algeria
United States filmmaker (born in Russia) who founded his own film company and later merged with Samuel Goldwyn (1885-1957). American-Canadian film producer
Swiss theologian (born in France) whose tenets (predestination and the irresistibility of grace and justification by faith) defined Presbyterianism (1509-1564). French Protestant reformer
a mountain pass of great strategic and commercial value in the Hindu Kush on the border between northern Pakistan and western Afghanistan; a route by which invaders entered India. mountain pass connecting Afghanistan and Pakistan
astronaut who made the first United States' suborbital rocket-powered flight in 1961 (1923-1998). American astronaut
the time period beginning with the supposed year of Christ's birth. Western calendar era
United States slapstick comedian (born in England) who played the scatterbrained and often tearful member of the Laurel and Hardy duo who made many films (1890-1965). English comic actor, writer and film director
United States composer who promoted 20th century music (1896-1985). American composer, critic, and teacher of music
a river in the central Netherlands flowing north to the IJsselmeer. branch of the Rhine
Italian architect who pioneered in the use of reinforced concrete (1891-1979). Italian architect and engineer
(Middle Ages) the bride of the king of Cornwall who (according to legend) fell in love with the king's nephew (Tristan) after they mistakenly drank a love potion that left them eternally in love with each other. lover of Tristan in the Arthurian legend
United States impresario who was born in Russia (1888-1974). Ukraine-born American impresario who managed many major performing artists
United States writer (born in England) who wrote on American culture (1917-1996). British writer and activist
English botanist who was one of the first to collect specimens of plants (1570-1638). English botanist
a defeat of the Persian army by the Greeks at Plataea in 479 BC. final land battle during the second Persian invasion of Greece
(Old Testament) the second patriarch; son of Abraham and Sarah who was offered by Abraham as a sacrifice to God; father of Jacob and Esau. Biblical character
the capital of Kyrgyzstan (known as Frunze 1926-1991). capital of Kyrgyzstan
a name under which Ninkhursag was worshipped. goddess in the Babylonian epic Atra-Hasis
United States film actor (born in England) noted for his performances in horror films (1887-1969). English actor
United States composer and music critic (1885-1966). American composer, music critic, and promoter of classical music
(Old Testament) a collection of written scrolls (containing nearly all of the Old Testament) found in a cave near the Dead Sea in the late 1940s. 15,000 fragments of about 850 scrolls from ancient Judaism
a small island. very small island
a district of Manhattan; now largely a Black ghetto. neighborhood in Manhattan, New York City
a cartoon character created by Walt Disney. animal cartoon character
a republic in northern South America on the Caribbean; achieved independence from Spain in 1811; rich in oil. Bolivarian republic in northern South America
a peninsula in northeastern Egypt; at north end of Red Sea. peninsula in the Red Sea
Canadian writer (born in Sri Lanka in 1943). Canadian writer
French politician who proposed the Maginot Line (1877-1932). French minister of war (1922 - '24; 1929 - '32)
an arm of the Mediterranean between Italy and the islands of Corsica and Sardinia and Sicily. sea
port city in southwestern South Africa; the seat of the legislative branch of the government of South Africa. city in the Western Cape, South Africa
the largest province of Canada; a French colony from 1663 to 1759 when it was lost to the British. province of Canada
a dissolute character in Shakespeare's plays. Shakespeare character
a suspension bridge across the East River in New York City. bridge in New York City
the second largest city in Iraq; an oil port in southern Iraq. capital of Basra Governorate, in southern Iraq
King of England who succeeded Edward the Confessor in 1066 and was the last of the Anglo-Saxon monarchs; he was killed fighting the invasion by William the Conqueror (1045-1066). Anglo-Saxon King of England
personification of the power of ritual devotion. Vedic sage, alternatively the Indic name of planet Jupiter, also a Hindu deity
Scottish physicist whose equations unified electricity and magnetism and who recognized the electromagnetic nature of light (1831-1879). Scottish physicist
an arm of the North Atlantic between Great Britain and Ireland. sea which separates the islands of Ireland and Great Britain
the fourth sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about June 21 to July 22. zodiac constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
the Greek goddess of fate who determines the length of the thread of life. one of the Fates of Greek Mythology
United States evangelical preacher famous as a mass evangelist (born in 1918). American Christian evangelist
a lake in central Scotland. lake in the United Kingdom
a city in the central Netherlands on the lower Rhine River; site of a battle in 1944 during World War II. municipality in the Netherlands
(Roman mythology) queen of the Olympian gods who protected marriage; wife and sister of Jupiter; counterpart of Greek Hera. ancient Roman goddess
the chief port of Egypt; located on the western edge of the Nile delta on the Mediterranean Sea; founded by Alexander the Great; the capital of ancient Egypt. second largest city in Egypt
German pessimist philosopher (1788-1860). German philosopher
a constitutional monarchy in western Europe on the North Sea; half the country lies below sea level. constituent country of the Kingdom of the Netherlands
a port town in northwestern France on the English Channel; site of a naval base. former city in Manche, France
a man raised by apes who was the hero of a series of novels by Edgar Rice Burroughs. fictional character from Edgar Rice Burroughs's Tarzan of the Apes
a city of eastern China on Hangzhou Bay; regarded by Marco Polo as the finest city in the world. capital of Zhejiang Province, China
chief port of Benin on the Bight of Benin. city in Benin
English lexicographer who was the first to treat etymology consistently; his work was used as a reference by Samuel Johnson (died in 1742). British lexicographer and philologist
a hill in Charlestown that was the site of the battle of Bunker Hill in 1775. mountain in United States of America
a long siege of Orleans by the English was relieved by Joan of Arc in 1429. siege
a large hollow wooden figure of a horse (filled with Greek soldiers) left by the Greeks outside Troy during the Trojan War. tale from Trojan War
Alsatian artist and poet who was cofounder of dadaism in Zurich; noted for abstract organic sculptures (1887-1966). Alsatian, sculptor, painter, poet and abstract artist
a bay of the Pacific in southern California. natural harbor in California, United States
region of northwestern Italy on the Ligurian Sea. Italian region
Norwegian mathematician (1802-1829). Norwegian mathematician
a famous battle in 480 BC; a Greek army under Leonidas was annihilated by the Persians who were trying to conquer Greece. battle
territory in the western United States purchased from France in 1803 for $15 million; extends from the Mississippi River to the Rocky Mountains and from the Gulf of Mexico to Canada. acquisition by the United States of America of France's claim to the territory of Louisiana
a prayer consisting of a series of invocations by the priest with responses from the congregation. form of prayer
a region of northern Africa on the Mediterranean coast between Egypt and Gibraltar; was used as a base for pirates from the 16th to 19th centuries. former country
English surgeon who was the first to use antiseptics (1827-1912). British surgeon and antiseptic pioneer
Welsh journalist and explorer who led an expedition to Africa in search of David Livingstone and found him in Tanzania in 1871; he and Livingstone together tried to find the source of the Nile River (1841-1904). Welsh journalist and explorer
a group of islands in the Lesser Antilles just to the north of Venezuela that are administered by The Netherlands. former country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands
a large mountain system in south-central Europe; scenic beauty and winter sports make them a popular tourist attraction. major mountain range system in Central Europe
a university in Connecticut. private research university in New Haven, Connecticut, United States
imaginative British writer concerned with social justice (1903-1950). English author and journalist
(Greek mythology) a sea god; son of Poseidon. Greek god, messenger of the sea
a port in American Samoa. capital of American Samoa
United States printer (born in England) whose press produced the first American prayer book and the New York City's first newspaper (1663-1752). American printer
a region of north central Italy on the Adriatic. region in Italy
United States political cartoonist (1840-1902). American cartoonist
a tributary of the Rhine. river in Germany
a continent in the western hemisphere connected to North America by the Isthmus of Panama. continent, mainly on the Earth's southwestern quadrant
English architect (1746-1813). English architect
an ancient town of Greece where Aristotle was born. village in Greece
Russian film maker who pioneered the use of montage and is considered among the most influential film makers in the history of motion pictures (1898-1948). Soviet filmmaker
the building in Philadelphia where the Declaration of Independence was signed. historic building in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA
United States publisher and editor who compiled a book of familiar quotations (1820-1905). American writer and publisher
a region of the northwestern United States usually including Washington and Oregon and sometimes southwestern British Columbia. region of western North America
a river in the east central United States; rises in West Virginia in the Appalachian Mountains and flows eastward, forming the boundary between Maryland and Virginia, to the Chesapeake Bay. river in the mid-Atlantic United States
an Old Testament book lamenting the desolation of Judah after the destruction of Jerusalem in 586 BC; traditionally attributed to the prophet Jeremiah. book of the Bible
English actor who was the first to play the leading role in several of Shakespeare's tragedies (1567-1619). English actor and theatre owner
goddess personifying the primeval sea; mother of the gods and of heaven and earth. Primeval Mesopotamian goddess
state in southern India; formerly Mysore. Indian state
(New Testament) a preacher and hermit and forerunner of Jesus (whom he baptized); was beheaded by Herod at the request of Salome. major religious figure
Portuguese explorer who in 1488 was the first European to get round the Cape of Good Hope (thus establishing a sea route from the Atlantic to Asia) (1450-1500). Portugu뫜띀 explorador
United States film actress (born in 1949). American actress
English writer and illustrator; grandfather of Daphne du Maurier (1834-1896). French-British cartoonist and author
British dramatist (born in Czechoslovakia in 1937). British playwright
a town in southeast New Mexico. city in Chaves County, New Mexico, United States
Spanish mystic and religious reformer; author of religious classics and a Christian saint (1515-1582). Roman Catholic saint
United States economist who proposed the Laffer curve (born in 1940). American economist
American Revolutionary leader and patriot; a signer of the Declaration of Independence (1737-1791). American politician, judge, and author
grandson of Queen Victoria and Kaiser of Germany from 1888 to 1918; he was vilified as causing World War I (1859-1941). German Emperor and King of Prussia
a mountain in the Andes on the border between Argentina and Chile (22,572 feet high). highest volcano in the world
a plain in Greece in the northwestern Peloponnese; the chief sanctuary of Zeus and the site of the original Olympian Games. archaeological site, sanctuary of Ancient Greece
a port and state capital of Tasmania. capital city of Tasmania, Australia
the site in Rome containing the church of Rome and the Lateran Palace. several architectural sites in Rome, once owned by the Lateranus family of the former Roman Empire
a state in southeastern United States; one of the Confederate states during the American Civil War. state of the United States of America
a town in northern France that is noted for its Gothic Cathedral. commune in Eure-et-Loir, France
United States aviator who in 1933 made the first solo flight around the world (1899-1935). American aviator; first pilot to fly solo around the world
a massive monument with a square base and four triangular sides; begun by Cheops around 2700 BC as royal tombs in ancient Egypt. oldest and largest of the three pyramids in the Giza Necropolis and it is one of the seven wonders in the world
Italian pope from 1775 to 1799 who served during the French Revolution; Napoleon attacked the Papal States and in 1797 Pius VI was taken to France where he died (1717-1799). pope and sovereign of the Papal States
a settlement established by the Dutch near the mouth of Hudson River and the southern end of Manhattan Island; annexed by the English in 1664 and renamed New York. historical Dutch colonial settlement that became New York City
goddess of love and beauty and daughter of Zeus in ancient mythology; identified with Roman Venus. Greek goddess of love, beauty, pleasure, and procreation
waterfall in Canada is the Horseshoe Falls; in the United States it is the American Falls. three waterfalls that straddle the international border between Canada and the United States
German Lutheran theologian and pastor whose works concern Christianity in the modern world; an active opponent of Nazism, he was arrested and sent to Buchenwald and later executed (1906-1945). German Lutheran pastor, theologian, dissident anti-Nazi
a tributary of the Ohio River that rises in western Ohio and flows southwestward across Indiana. tributary of the Ohio River in the United States of America
a city in east central Sweden to the northwest of Stockholm. city in Uppsala County, Sweden
German educator who founded the kindergarten system (1782-1852). German educator
Roman statesman and general who built the Flaminian Way; died when he was defeated by Hannibal (died 217 BC). Roman politician and consul
a republic in northwestern Africa on the Mediterranean coast; achieved independence from France in 1956. country in Northern Africa
German naturalist (1709-1746). German scientist
Swiss sculptor and painter known for his bronze sculptures of elongated figures (1901-1966). Swiss sculptor and painter (1901-1966)
a city on the Garonne River in southern France to the southeast of Bordeaux; a cultural center of medieval Europe. commune in Haute-Garonne, France
a mythical Greek warrior who was a leader on the Trojan side of the Trojan War; hero of the Aeneid. Trojan hero in Greco-Roman mythology
general name given to all desert areas in Australia. deserts of Australia
British sculptor (1902-1975). English sculptor
United States writer whose work is concerned with the oppression of African Americans (1908-1960). African-American writer
United States concert pianist (born in Czechoslovakia) (1903-1991). American musician
the capital and largest city of Honduras. capital of Honduras
United States jazz musician and bandleader (1913-1987). American clarinetist
the capital and chief port and largest city of Liberia. capital city of Liberia
an ancient city in the West Bank to the north of Jerusalem; the home of Jacob in biblical times. city in Nablus Governorate, Palestinian Authority
United States food manufacturer who (with his brother) developed a breakfast cereal of crisp flakes of rolled and toasted wheat and corn; he established a company to manufacture the cereal (1860-1951). American businessman
the part of the Arctic Ocean to the north of Norway and Russia. marginal sea of the Arctic Ocean, located off the northern coasts of Norway and Russia
the third book of the Old Testament; contains Levitical law and ritual precedents. third book of the Bible
a northeastern arm of the Red Sea; between the Sinai Peninsula (Egypt) and Saudi Arabia. bay
an ancient town on Crete where Bronze Age culture flourished from about 2000 BC to 1400 BC. ancient Minoan city
the government building in Washington where the United States Senate and the House of Representatives meet. seat of the United States Congress
American silversmith remembered for his midnight ride (celebrated in a poem by Longfellow) to warn the colonists in Lexington and Concord that British troops were coming (1735-1818). American silversmith
Roman historian who wrote major works on the history of the Roman Empire (56-120). Roman senator and historian
French painter who led the cubist movement (1882-1963). French painter and sculptor
(Genesis 11:1-11) a tower built by Noah's descendants (probably in Babylon) who intended it to reach up to heaven; God foiled them by confusing their language so they could no longer understand one another. tower in a story from the Book of Genesis, allegedly constructed by humans when they all spoke a single language.
the British residents of Lucknow were besieged by Indian insurgents during the Indian Mutiny (1857). siege
an island in the southwestern Indian Ocean. island nation in the Indian Ocean
a state in northern Mexico; mostly high plateau. state in Mexico
United States naturalist (born in Switzerland) who studied fossil fish; recognized geological evidence that ice ages had occurred in North America (1807-1873). Swiss naturalist
United States author whose works were frequently autobiographical (1876-1941). American writer
United States abstract painter (born in Russia) whose paintings are characterized by horizontal bands of color with indistinct boundaries (1903-1970). American painter
Turkish statesman who abolished the caliphate and founded Turkey as a modern secular state (1881-1938). Turkish field marshal, revolutionary statesman, and founder of the Republic of Turkey
Canadian literary critic interested in the use of myth and symbolism (1912-1991). Canadian literary critic and literary theorist
Czechoslovakian religious reformer who anticipated the Reformation; he questioned the infallibility of the Catholic Church was excommunicated (1409) for attacking the corruption of the clergy; he was burned at the stake (1372-1415). Czech linguist, religion writer, theologist, university educator and science writer
English actor and theatrical producer noted for his lavish productions of Shakespeare (1853-1917). English actor and theatre manager
German field marshal and statesman; as president of the Weimar Republic he reluctantly appointed Hitler as chancellor in 1933 (1847-1934). Prussian-German field marshal, statesman, and president of Germany
United States jazz tenor saxophonist (1909-1959). American jazz tenor saxophonist and sometime clarinetist
English physicist who studied electromagnetic radiation and was a pioneer of radiotelegraphy (1851-1940). British physicist
goddess of death and consort of Nergal. goddess in Mesopotamian mythology
a city in central Texas. city in Texas, United States
United States inventor (born in Scotland) of the telephone (1847-1922). scientist and inventor known for his work on the telephone
Argentinian writer remembered for his short stories (1899-1986). Argentine short-story writer, essayist, poet and translator
a mountain peak in northeastern New Mexico in the Rocky Mountains. mountain
United States electrical engineer (born in England) who in 1892 formed a company with Thomas Edison (1853-1937). American inventor
struggle for the English throne (1455-1485) between the house of York (white rose) and the house of Lancaster (red rose) ending with the accession of the Tudor monarch Henry VII. series of dynastic wars
ancient city; now destroyed. Roman town
Iranian religious leader of the Shiites; when Shah Pahlavi's regime fell Khomeini established a new constitution giving himself supreme powers (1900-1989). Religious leader, politician
a chain of 55 islands in the western Pacific to the to the southwest of Japan (returned by United States to Japan in 1972). chain of Japanese islands
a seaport in northern France on the North Sea; scene of the evacuation of British forces in 1940 during World War II. commune in Nord, France
King of France from 1560 to 1574 whose reign was dominated by his mother Catherine de Medicis (1550-1574). King of France
United States sexual physiologist whose hunch that progesterone could block ovulation led to the development of the oral contraceptive pill (1903-1967). American biochemist
a town in Hawaii on the island of Hawaii. county seat of Hawaii County, Hawaii, United States
United States jazz singer noted for her complex bebop phrasing and scat singing (1924-1990). American jazz singer
United States poet (1869-1950). American writer
capital and largest city of Botswana in the extreme southeast. capital of Botswana
the shortest of the four Gospels in the New Testament. book of the Bible
United States politician and military leader who fought to gain independence for Texas from Mexico and to make it a part of the United States (1793-1863). nineteenth-century American statesman, politician, and soldier, namesake of Houston, Texas
a city in northeastern Texas (just to the west of Dallas); a major industrial center. city in Texas, USA
(Greek mythology) the most ancient of gods; the personification of the infinity of space preceding creation of the universe. mythological concept
a river in northern Guyana that flows northward into the Atlantic. river in Guyana
United States comedienne who starred in early television shows with Sid Caesar (1908-2001). American comic actress
a peninsula of southern Australia. peninsula in South Australia
Austrian zoologist noted for his studies of honeybees (1886-1982). Austrian biologist
from 230 million to 190 million years ago; dinosaurs, marine reptiles; volcanic activity. first period of the Mesozoic Era
English philosopher and mathematician who collaborated with Whitehead (1872-1970). British philosopher, logician, mathematician, historian, writer, social critic, political activist and Nobel laureate
town in eastern Massachusetts near Boston where the first battle of the American Revolution was fought. town in Middlesex County, Massachusetts, United States
Roman general who commanded the invasion of Carthage in the second Punic War and defeated Hannibal at Zama (circa 237-183 BC). Roman general in the Second Punic War
nephew of Napoleon I and emperor of the French from 1852 to 1871 (1808-1873). French emperor, president, and member of the House of Bonaparte
(Greek mythology) the beautiful daughter of Zeus and Leda who was abducted by Paris; the Greek army sailed to Troy to get her back which resulted in the Trojan War. daughter of Zeus in Greek Mythology
a river in eastern Pennsylvania that flows southeast into the Delaware River. river located in eastern Pennsylvania, in the United States
an extremely cold continent at the south pole almost entirely below the Antarctic Circle; covered by an ice cap up to 13,000 feet deep. polar continent
thoroughbred that won the triple crown in 1935. racehorse: won the Triple Crown
city in southwestern South Korea; an important military base during the Korean War. metropolitan city in South Korea
Japanese filmmaker noted for blending Japanese folklore with western styles of acting (1910-1998). Japanese film maker
United States suffragist and feminist; called for reform of the practices that perpetuated sexual inequality (1815-1902). American  writer, suffragist and Women's Rights activist
a landlocked republic in central South America; Simon Bolivar founded Bolivia in 1825 after winning independence from Spain. country in South America
a sacred text revealed to Joseph Smith in 1830 by an ancient prophet Mormon; supposedly a record of ancient peoples of America translated by Joseph Smith. sacred text of the Latter Day Saint movement
a castle in northeastern Scotland that is a private residence of the British sovereign. estate house in Royal Deeside, Aberdeenshire, Scotland
a city in central Illinois on the Illinois River. county seat of Peoria County, Illinois, United States
a town of central Italy on the Tyrrhenian Sea; the Allies established a beachhead at Anzio in World War II. Italian comune
German chemist who did research on high-speed chemical reactions (born in 1927). German biophysical chemist
United States neoclassical sculptor (1814-1857). American sculptor (1814-1857)
an island republic in the West Indies off the northeastern coast of Venezuela; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1962. island country in the Caribbean Sea
the capital of Victoria state and 2nd largest Australian city; a financial and commercial center. capital city of Victoria, Australia
the largest city in Missouri; a busy river port on the Mississippi River near its confluence with the Missouri River; was an important staging area for wagon trains westward in the 19th century. city and port in the U.S. state of Missouri
German physicist and chemist who formulated the third law of thermodynamics (1864-1941). German physical chemist and physicist
a faint constellation in the southern hemisphere near Hydra and Vela. constellation in the Southern Celestial Hemisphere
United States general who supervised the invasion of Normandy and the defeat of Nazi Germany; 34th President of the United States (1890-1961). American general and politician, 34th President of the United States (in office from 1953 to 1961)
a university in Burlington, Vermont. public research university in Burlington, Vermont, USA
a region of the United States comprising states bordering the Gulf of Mexico; Alabama and Florida and Louisiana and Mississippi and Texas. coast of American states that are on the Gulf of Mexico
a group of mountainous islands in the Atlantic off the northwest coast of Africa forming Spanish provinces. Autonomous community of Spain
a saltwater lake in southeastern California. lake in California
English astronomer (son of William Herschel) who extended the catalogue of stars to the southern hemisphere and did pioneering work in photography (1792-1871). English mathematician, astronomer, chemist and photographer
the Teutonic goddess of fertility; later identified with Norse Njord. goddess associated with fertility in Germanic paganism
Dutch philosopher who espoused a pantheistic system (1632-1677). Dutch philosopher
a large swampy area of northeast Florida and southeast Georgia. wetlands in Florida and Georgia, USA
German field marshal in World War II who directed the conquest of Poland and led the Ardennes counteroffensive (1875-1953). German Field Marshal during World War II
a town in southeast Louisiana to the south of Baton Rouge. city
United States operatic soprano noted for the clarity and power of her voice (1920-2002). singer
French mathematician who developed Fourier analysis and studied the conduction of heat (1768-1830). French mathematician and physicist
Brazilian statesman who ruled Brazil as a virtual dictator (1883-1954). President of Brazil
a fortress in London on the Thames; used as a palace and a state prison and now as a museum containing the crown jewels. castle in central London
a university town in northwestern Arkansas in the Ozarks. county seat of Washington County, Arkansas, United States
United States inventor and manufacturer who developed the safety razor (1855-1932). American inventor
city in southern Malawi; largest city and commercial center of Malawi. city in Malawi
the smallest continent; between the South Pacific and the Indian Ocean. country in Oceania
English writer of novels of espionage (born in 1931). British novelist and spy
Finnish composer (1865-1957). Finnish composer of the late Romantic period
largest city in North Dakota; located in eastern North Dakota on the Red river. city in North Dakota, United States of America
the period of European history at the close of the Middle Ages and the rise of the modern world; a cultural rebirth from the 14th through the middle of the 17th centuries. cultural movement that spanned the period roughly from the 14th to the 17th century
a red-brick university in Brighton, England. public research university in East Sussex, England
a legendary king of the Britons (possibly based on a historical figure in the 6th century but the story has been retold too many times to be sure); said to have led the Knights of the Round Table at Camelot. legendary British (Welsh) king
United States linguist (born in Russia) noted for his description of the universals of phonology (1896-1982). American linguist, philosopher and educationist
one the four wars between Macedonia and Rome in the 3rd and 2nd centuries BC, which ended in the defeat of Macedonia and its annexation as a Roman province. series of conflicts between the Roman Empire and various Greek kingdoms
a city in northern West Virginia on the Monongahela river near the Pennsylvania border; site of the University of West Virginia. county seat of Monongalia County, West Virginia, United States
United States financier (born in France) who helped finance the War of 1812 (1750-1831). American banker and philanthropist
fictional character created by James Thurber who daydreams about his adventures and triumphs. protagonist of a James Thurber short story
United States jurist noted for his liberal opinions (1841-1935). United States Supreme Court justice
(European mythology) a supernatural smith and king of the elves; identified with Norse Volund. Norse mythological blacksmith
French mathematician and philosopher and Jansenist; invented an adding machine; contributed (with Fermat) to the theory of probability (1623-1662). French mathematician, physicist, inventor, writer, and Christian philosopher
a university town in central Missouri. city in Missouri, United States
Welsh industrialist and social reformer who founded cooperative communities (1771-1858). Welsh social reformer
a book written by Karl Marx (1867) describing his economic theories. book by Karl Marx
American revolutionary patriot who was president of the Continental Congress; was the first signer of the Declaration of Independence (1737-1793). American Patriot and statesman during the American Revolution (1737뼰1793)
last king of Lydia (died in 546 BC). King of Lydia
United States poet (1885-1928). American poet
the office of the President of the United States in the White House. office of the U.S. President
founder of Christian Science in 1866 (1821-1910). American religious leader
a populous province of south central China. province of China
the last king of Sweden to have any real political power (1882-1973). King of Sweden, anthropologist, art historian and archaeologist
a battle in World War I (1916); in some of the bloodiest fighting in World War I the German offensive was stopped. battle
an inlet of the North Pacific in northwestern Washington State. sound along the northwestern coast of the U.S. state of Washington
a county in southeastern England on the North Sea and the Thames estuary. ceremonial county in England (use Q21272241 for administrative non-metropolitan county)
an Old Testament book containing the prophecies of Malachi. book of the Bible
a river in ancient Thrace (now Turkey); in the mouth of this river the Spartan fleet under Lysander destroyed the Athenian fleet in the final battle of the Peloponnesian War (404 BC). river in Turkey
a city in northeastern Iraq; the center of a rich oilfield with pipelines to the Mediterranean. city in Iraqi Kurdistan
an industrial city and river port in northern Poland. city in north-central Poland
German filmmaker of sophisticated comedies (1892-1947). German American actor, screenwriter, producer and film director
United States film and television actress (1913-2000). American actress
(Old Testament) a judge of Israel who performed herculean feats of strength against the Philistines until he was betrayed to them by his mistress Delilah. judge of ancient Israel, known for wielding supernatural strength
an ancient Italian city in central Lombardy. Italian city in Lombardy
the name for Korea as a Japanese province (1910-1945). Korean kingdom, 1392 to 1897
United States physicist (born in Germany) who with Gustav Hertz performed an electron scattering experiment that proved the existence of the stationary energy states postulated by Niels Bohr (1882-1964). German physicist
United States artist and proponent of pop art (born in 1930). American artist
port city located in southeastern Virginia on the Elizabeth River at the mouth of Chesapeake Bay; headquarters of the Atlantic fleet of the United States Navy. independent city in Virginia, United States
a mountain peak in the Andes in Bolivia (20,960 feet high). mountain
a state in south central Australia. state of Australia
a town in west central Texas; formerly a notorious frontier town. city in Texas
a glacier of the Piedmont type near Juneau in Alaska. glacier in the United States
terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God. appellation for a person or deity who has authority, control, or power over others acting like a master, a chief, or a ruler
Scottish clan leader and outlaw who was the subject of a 1817 novel by Sir Walter Scott (1671-1734). Scottish outlaw
Danish physician and bacteriologist who developed a method of staining bacteria to distinguish among them (1853-1938). Danish scientist
an atoll in the western Marshall Islands that was used as a Japanese air and naval base during World War II. atoll
French poet (born in Romania) who was one of the cofounders of the dada movement (1896-1963). Romanian-French Dadaist poet
a small constellation in the northern hemisphere between Bootes and Hercules. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
United States lawyer who was director of the FBI for 48 years (1895-1972). American law enforcement officer and first director of the FBI
a British cabinetmaker remembered for his graceful designs (especially of chairs) which influenced his contemporaries (1718-1779). British cabinet-maker
surrealist Spanish painter (1904-1989). Spanish artist
from 25 million to 13 million years ago; appearance of grazing mammals. first Epoch of the Neogene Period
a narrow isthmus linking the Malay Peninsula to the Asian mainland. narrowest part of the Malay Peninsula
(Old Testament) the 2nd king of the Israelites; as a young shepherd he fought Goliath (a giant Philistine warrior) and killed him by hitting him in the head with a stone flung from a sling; he united Israel with Jerusalem as its capital; many of the Psalms are attributed to David (circa 1000-962 BC). king of Israel and Judah
Soviet ambassador to the United States and to the United Nations (1909-1989). Soviet diplomat
Thebes defeated Sparta in 371 BC; the battle ended Sparta's military supremacy in Greece. battle
United States physician and suffragist (1847-1919). American physician and activist
pioneer of non-Euclidean geometry (1826-1866). German mathematician
British historian (born in Russia) (1854-1925). Russian historian
English dramatist who collaborated with John Fletcher (1584-1616). British dramatist
king of France (921-954). King of Western Francia
Caesar defeated Pompey in 48 BC. decisive battle of Caesar's Civil War
a landlocked republic in eastern Europe; formerly a European soviet but achieved independence in 1991. republic in Eastern Europe
a town in southeast Mississippi. city in Lamar County and Forrest County, Mississippi, United States; county seat of Forrest County, Mississippi
Italian physiologist who disproved the theory of spontaneous generation (1729-1799). Italian priest, biologist and physiologist
formerly a Crown Colony on the coast of southern China in Guangdong province; leased by China to Britain in 1842 and returned in 1997; one of the world's leading commercial centers. Special Administrative Region of China
according to legend she rode naked through Coventry in order to persuade her husband not to tax the townspeople so heavily; the only person to look at her as she rode by was a man named Tom and Peeping Tom has become a synonym for voyeur (circa 1040-1080). Anglo-Saxon noblewoman, Countess of Leicester
English empiricist philosopher who believed that all knowledge is derived from sensory experience (1632-1704). English philosopher and physician
a volcano in central Honshu near Nagano; one of the largest volcanoes in Japan (8,340 feet). mountain in Nagano Prefecture, Japan
a mountain in the Andes in Argentina (22,210 feet high). mountain
a Hebrew prophet of the 6th century BC who was exiled to Babylon in 587 BC. Old Testament saint
United States biologist (born in Germany) who studied how viruses infect living cells (1906-1981). biophysicist
an Apocryphal book consisting of text added to the Book of Esther. book
a republic in southwestern Africa on the Atlantic Ocean; achieved independence from Portugal in 1975 and was the scene of civil war until 1990. country in Africa
Italian painter whose works show a three-dimensional style (1406-1469). Italian Renaissance painter, ca.
United States feminist who was active in the women's suffrage movement (1819-1910). American abolitionist, social activist, and poet
King of France elected in 987 and founding the Capetian dynasty (940-996). King of the Franks
a city in southeastern Mexico. capital and largest city of the Mexican state of Chiapas
English pianist (1890-1965). British pianist
remote city of Kazakhstan that (ostensibly for security reasons) was made the capital in 1998. capital of Kazakhstan
Dutch Post-impressionist painter noted for his use of color (1853-1890). Dutch painter (1853뼰1890)
a port city in southeastern Virginia on the Elizabeth River opposite Norfolk; naval base; shipyards. independent city in Virginia, United States
a European river; flows into the Adriatic Sea. Italian river
the 2nd largest ocean; separates North and South America on the west from Europe and Africa on the east. ocean on Earth
United States choreographer who brought human emotion to classical ballet and spirited reality to Broadway musicals (1918-1998). American theater producer, director, and choreographer
the peninsula in northern Europe occupied by Norway and Sweden. peninsula in Northern Europe, which covers Norway, Sweden and most of northern Finland
United States psychiatrist (1885-1952). American-German psychoanalyst
a mountain peak in the Andes in Ecuador (20,560 feet high). volcano and highest mountain in Ecuador; the summit is the farthest point on the Earth's surface from the Earth's center (as well as the closest point to the moon on Earth)
writer of detective novels featuring Perry Mason (1889-1970). Lawyer, novelist, travel writer
Great Britain and Ireland and adjacent islands in the north Atlantic. group of islands in northwest Europe
a city in the Asian part of Russia on the Ob river; largest city in Siberia. Russian city, the administrative center of Siberian Federal District
22nd and 24th President of the United States (1837-1908). 22nd and 24th President of the United States
king of Egypt who in 1952 was ousted by a military coup d'etat (1920-1965). Egyptian King
an agricultural region of western France on the Bay of Biscay. administrative region of France
Welsh film actor who often co-starred with Elizabeth Taylor (1925-1984). Welsh actor
a city on the western side of Lake Urmia in northwestern Iran. city in Iran
a large Yoruba city in southwestern Nigeria; site of a university. capital city of Oyo State in Nigeria
a port in eastern Venezuela on the Orinoco river. city in Venezuela
a Dutch Roman Catholic theologian (1585-1638). Bishop and theologian
an active volcano in the Cascade Range in southwestern Washington; erupted violently in 1980 after 123 years of inactivity. US American volcano
a town in southeast Ohio. town in Ohio
a port city on the southwestern coast of Honshu in Japan; on August 6, 1945 Hiroshima was almost completely destroyed by the first atomic bomb dropped on a populated area. city in Japan
king of Italy who appointed Mussolini prime minister; he abdicated in 1946 and the monarchy was abolished (1869-1947). King of Italy from 1900뼰1946
a tributary of the Missouri River that flows through the Yellowstone National Park. tributary of the Missouri River in the western United States
United States political philosopher (born in Germany) concerned about the dehumanizing effects of capitalism and modern technology (1898-1979). German philosopher, sociologist, and political theorist
a river in northeastern Spain; flows into the Mediterranean. river in the Iberian Peninsula
a town in west central Florida on the Gulf of Mexico. county seat of Sarasota County, Florida, United States
Romanian sculptor noted for abstractions of animal forms (1876-1957). French-Romanian artist
a cluster of 5 bright stars forming a cross in the constellation Cygnus. astronomical asterism in the northern hemisphere celestial sphere
the capital and largest city of Sweden; located in southern Sweden on the Baltic. capital of Sweden. Use Q506250 for the administrative territorial entity
British author who created Sherlock Holmes (1859-1930). Scottish physician and author
a terrorist network intensely opposed to the United States that dispenses money and logistical support and training to a wide variety of radical Islamic terrorist groups; has cells in more than 50 countries. islamic militant organization
(Christian theology) the reappearance of Jesus as judge for the Last Judgment. event in which Jesus Christ would return to Earth according to Christian religions
capital and largest city of Indonesia; located on the island of Java; founded by the Dutch in 17th century. capital and province of Indonesia
a mountain peak in the Tien Shan mountains in northern India (24,406 feet high). mountain in Kyrgyzstan
United States physicist noted for research on x-rays and gamma rays and nuclear energy; his observation that X-rays behave like miniature bowling balls in their interactions with electrons provided evidence for the quantal nature of light (1892-1962). American physicist
a chain of islands in the western Malay Archipelago. part of the Malay Archipelago
a mountain range in northwest Wyoming; contains the Grand Teton. mountain range of the Rocky Mountains in North America
a small zodiacal constellation in the northern hemisphere; between Leo and Gemini. zodiac constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
United States inventor and manufacturer (1846-1914). American businessman
French painter whose work influenced the impressionists (1832-1883). French painter
United States author (born in Canada) whose novels influenced American literature after World War II (1915-2005). Canadian-born American writer
Russian composer (1833-1887). Russian composer, doctor and chemist
the capital and largest city of Indiana; a major commercial center in the country's heartland; site of an annual 500-mile automobile race. county seat in Marion County, Indiana, USA and Indiana federated state capital city
French explorer who circumnavigated the globe accompanied by scientists (1729-1811). French admiral and explorer
German chemist (1825-1909). German chemist
elder brother of Krishna; an incarnation of Vishnu. elder brother of Krishna, a deity in Vaishnavism and Jainism
United States professional baseball player who hit more home runs than Babe Ruth (born in 1934). American baseball player
a large region between the Black and Caspian seas that contains the Caucasus Mountains; oil is its major resource. region in Eurasia bordered on the south by Iran, on the southwest by Turkey, on the west by the Black Sea, on the east by the Caspian Sea, and on the north by Russia
a small volcanic island in Indonesia between Java and Sumatra; its violent eruption in 1883 was the greatest in recorded history. volcanic island in the Sunda Strait between Java and Sumatra in Indonesia
a small gang of terrorist thugs claiming to seek a separate Islamic state for the Muslim minority in the Philippines; uses bombing and assassination and extortion and kidnapping. Jihadist militant group in the Philippines
a habitual liar (after a New Testament character who was struck dead for lying). married couple
Armenian composer who incorporated oriental folk music (1903-1978). Soviet composer and conductor
United States screenwriter and filmmaker (born in 1944). American film producer
a waterfall in the Snake River in southern Idaho. waterfall on the Snake River in Idaho, USA
the French-speaking part of the Canadian Maritime Provinces. colony of New France in northeastern North America
a port city of northeastern Algeria near the Tunisian border. municipality of Algeria
the partner of Mickey Mouse. animal cartoon character
(Greek mythology) the Greek personification of death; son of Nyx. personification of Death in Greek mythology
United States heavyweight boxing champion (1866-1933). American boxer
United States politician who served as vice president under Jefferson; he mortally wounded his political rival Alexander Hamilton in a duel and fled south (1756-1836). American Vice President and politician
the smallest sovereign state in the world; the see of the Pope (as the Bishop of Rome); home of the Pope and the central administration of the Roman Catholic Church; achieved independence from Italy in 1929. country in southern Europe under the sovereignty of the Holy See
a period in British history during the reign of Queen Victoria in the 19th century; her character and moral standards restored the prestige of the British monarchy but gave the era a prudish reputation. period of British history encompassing Queen Victoria's reign (1837뼰1901)
from 58 million to 40 million years ago; presence of modern mammals. second epoch of the Paleogene period
a mountain in the central Himalayas on the border of Tibet and Nepal (27,890 feet high). mountain in Nepal
legendary Sumerian king and hero of Sumerian and Babylonian epics. Sumerian ruler
United States industrialist (born in Switzerland) who with his sons established vast mining and metal processing companies (1828-1905). American businessperson
a landlocked republic in northwestern Africa; achieved independence from France in 1960; Mali was a center of West African civilization for more than 4,000 years. republic in West Africa
a river in southeast China that flows into the South China Sea. river in China
battle in 401 BC when the Artaxerxes II defeated his younger brother who tried to usurp the throne. battle
a Lutheran theologian in Germany (1884-1976). German theologian
socialist who wrote the Communist Manifesto with Karl Marx in 1848 (1820-1895). German social scientist, author, political theorist, and philosopher
an ancient Greek grammarian remembered for his commentary on the Iliad and Odyssey (circa 217-145 BC). ancient Greek librarian
town in northeastern Massachusetts; residential suburb of Boston. city in Middlesex County, Massachusetts, United States
the brightest star in Scorpius. red supergiant star in the constellation Scorpius
Italian painter whose many paintings exemplify the ideals of the High Renaissance (1483-1520). Italian painter and architect
Hungarian chemist who studied radioisotopes and was one of the discoverers of the element hafnium (1885-1966). Hungarian chemist
English chemist (born in Egypt) who used crystallography to study the structure of organic compounds (1910-1994). British chemist
United States novelist (born in 1930). American writer
a city in south central Alaska. city in Alaska, USA
United States psychologist considered the founder of behavioristic psychology (1878-1958). American psychologist
the part of northern Michigan between Lake Michigan and Lake Huron. Southern major peninsula of the US state of Michigan
the boundary between the Earth's crust and the underlying mantle. boundary between the Earth's crust and the mantle
Italian pope from 1846 to 1878 who in 1854 declared the dogma of the Immaculate Conception of the Virgin Mary. 255th Pope of the Catholic Church
a Canadian province on the island of Newfoundland and on the mainland along the coast of the Labrador Sea; became Canada's 10th province in 1949. province of Canada
United States aviator who in 1927 made the first solo nonstop flight across the Atlantic Ocean (1902-1974). American politician
Scottish writer of satirical novels (born in 1918). Scottish writer
the naval battle in which Antony and Cleopatra were defeated by Octavian's fleet under Agrippa in 31 BC. decisive confrontation of the Final War of the Roman Republic
the third person in the Trinity; Jesus promised the Apostles that he would send the Holy Spirit after his Crucifixion and Resurrection; it came on Pentecost. conception of God, or an attribute thereof, in various religions
(Greek mythology) Greek god of war; son of Zeus and Hera; identified with Roman Mars. Greek god of war
(Greek mythology) a sea nymph transformed into a sea monster who lived on one side of a narrow strait; drowned and devoured sailors who tried to escape Charybdis (a whirlpool) on the other side of the strait. nymph transformed into a sea monster by Circe in Greek mythology
King of England from 1307 to 1327 and son of Edward I; was defeated at Bannockburn by the Scots led by Robert the Bruce; was deposed and died in prison (1284-1327). King of England; born in Caernarfon
an archipelago of some 6,000 islands in the Gulf of Bothnia under Finnish control. autonomous region of Finland
avatar of Vishnu whose name is synonymous with God; any of three incarnations: Ramachandra or Parashurama or Balarama. Hindu deity
French poet and novelist and dramatist; leader of the romantic movement in France (1802-1885). French poet, novelist, and dramatist
a battle in 1645 that settled the outcome of the first English Civil War as the Parliamentarians won a major victory over the Royalists. battle
a city in northeastern China. capital of Liaoning Province, China
a suspension bridge across the Saint Lawrence River at Quebec. bridge in Canada
English statesman and son of Pitt the Elder (1759-1806). British politician
English prelate and statesman; founded a college at Oxford and Winchester College in Winchester; served as chancellor of England and bishop of Winchester (1324-1404). Bishop of Winchester; Lord Privy Seal of England; Lord Chancellor of England
a landlocked republic in southwestern Asia; formerly an Asian soviet; modern Armenia is but a fragment of ancient Armenia which was one of the world's oldest civilizations; throughout 2500 years the Armenian people have been invaded and oppressed by their neighbors. country in South Caucasus
Dutch colonist who bought Manhattan from the Native Americans for the equivalent of $24 (1580-1638). third director-general of New Netherland, founder of the Swedish colony of New Sweden in 1638
United States electrical engineer who designed an early analogue computer and who led the scientific program of the United States during World War II (1890-1974). American electrical engineer and science administrator
United States industrialist who made a fortune in the oil business and gave half of it away (1839-1937). American business magnate and philanthropist
a nation in southeastern Asia; was part of Indochina under French rule until 1946. constitutional monarchy in Southeast Asia
city in southeastern Brazil to the north of Rio de Janeiro; the first of Brazil's planned communities. capital city of the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil
English actor who edited the first folio of Shakespeare's plays (1556-1630). English actor
Scottish explorer in Africa (1771-1806). Scottish explorer of the African continent
a suspension bridge across the Delaware River. bridge over the Delaware River, connecting Delaware and New Jersey
an archipelago in the southwestern Pacific including some 7000 islands. republic in Southeast Asia
a historical region in central and northern Yugoslavia; Serbs settled the region in the 6th and 7th centuries. republic in Southeastern Europe
a county in southern England on the English Channel. county in England
Dutch ophthalmologist who introduced the Snellen chart to study visual acuity (1834-1908). Dutch ophthalmologist
a university town in east central Maine on the Penobscot River to the north of Bangor. town in Maine
Italian composer (1526-1594). Italian Renaissance composer
a great lighthouse (500 feet high) built at Alexandria in 285 BC. lighthouse in Egypt, built in the 3rd century BC and destroyed in the Middle Ages
Italian anatomist who first described the Fallopian tubes (1523-1562). Italian anatomist
United States chemist (1839-1903). physicist
United States painter (born in 1917). American Painter
a region of northern Africa to the south of the Sahara and Libyan deserts; extends from the Atlantic to the Red Sea. country in Northeast Africa
the Mediterranean coast of northern Africa that was famous for its Moorish pirates. former country
the longest lake in the world in central Africa between Tanzania and Congo in the Great Rift Valley. lake in Africa
a city district of central London laid out in garden squares. area of the London Borough of Camden, in London, England, UK
an ancient Greek city famous for military prowess; the dominant city of the Peloponnesus prior to the 4th century BC. city-state in ancient Greece
United States actor and assassin of President Lincoln (1838-1865). American stage actor and assassin of Abraham Lincoln
a city in northern Texas between Dallas and Fort Worth. suburban city in Texas, United States
United States explorer who accompanied Peary's expedition to the North Pole and who led many other Arctic trips (1875-1946). Newfoundland Canadian US-American explorer
a mountainous island; the largest of the Solomon Islands in the independent state that is a member of the British Commonwealth. island of the Solomon Islands chain in the South Pacific Ocean
the Greek lyric poet of Lesbos; much admired although only fragments of her poetry have been preserved (6th century BC). ancient Greek lyric poet
United States poet; author of narrative verse (1869-1935). American poet
the English counties surrounding London into which Greater London has expanded. vernacular region comprised of the counties of England that surround London
a town in southwestern Montana; gateway to Yellowstone National Park. town in Gallatin County, Montana, United States
a tributary of the Missouri River. river in the United States of America
German chemist noted for his synthesis of hemin (1881-1945). German chemist
the diseased beggar in Jesus' parable of the rich man and the beggar. parable of Jesus (Luke 16:19뼰31) about the relationship, during life and after death, between an unnamed rich man and a poor beggar named Lazarus
an island in the Indian Ocean off the southeastern coast of Africa; the 4th largest island in the world. island nation off the coast of Southeast Africa, in the Indian Ocean
a republic on the western coast of Africa on the Gulf of Guinea; formerly under French control. country in Africa
arm of the Indian Ocean at the entrance to the Red Sea. bay
a city in Veneto on the River Adige. city in Veneto, northern Italy
Soviet physicist and dissident; helped develop the first Russian hydrogen bomb; advocated nuclear disarmament and campaigned for human rights (1921-1989). Soviet nuclear physicist and human rights activist
the principal city of Northamptonshire. town in Northamptonshire, England, UK
(Arthurian legend) one of the knights of the Round Table; friend of King Arthur until (according to some versions of the legend) he became the lover of Arthur's wife Guinevere. Arthurian legend character
the capital of Monaco. town in Monaco
(Middle Ages) the nephew of the king of Cornwall who (according to legend) fell in love with his uncle's bride (Iseult) after they mistakenly drank a love potion that left them eternally in love with each other. Cornish knight of the Round Table Arthurian legend
United States electrical engineer who in 1907 patented the first triode vacuum tube, which made it possible to detect and amplify radio waves (1873-1961). American inventor
king of Spain since 1975 (born in 1938). King of Spain (1975-2014)
the isthmus joining North America and South America; extends from the southern border of Mexico to the northern border of Colombia. central geographic region of the Americas
French statesman and writer; considered a precursor of the romantic movement in France (1768-1848). French writer, politician, diplomat and historian
a hero in Hindu mythology; an incarnation of Vishnu. Hindu deity
the celestial pole above the northern hemisphere; near Polaris. two imaginary points in the sky where the Earth's axis of rotation, indefinitely extended, intersects the imaginary rotating sphere of stars called the celestial sphere
South African novelist and short-story writer whose work describes the effects of apartheid (born in 1923). South African writer
a river that rises in Pennsylvania and flows north into New York and then back south through Pennsylvania again to join the Monongahela River at Pittsburgh which is the beginning of the Ohio River. river in western Pennsylvania and New York, United States
Italian operatic composer noted for the dramatic realism of his operas (1858-1924). Italian opera composer
capital of Mauritania; located in western Mauritania near the Atlantic coast. capital of Mauritania
the first czar of Russia (1530-1584). Grand Prince of Moscow and 1st Tsar of Russia
an outstanding Spanish cellist noted for his interpretation of Bach's cello suites (1876-1973). Catalan cellist and conductor
(Greek mythology) a river in Hades that was said to be a tributary of the Acheron. mythological river of the Underworld (ancient Greece)
English explorer who helped found the colony at Jamestown, Virginia; was said to have been saved by Pocahontas (1580-1631). English soldier, explorer and writer
German arms manufacturer and inventor of a repeating rifle and pistol (1838-1914). German weapon designer and manufacturer
capital of the state of Michigan; located in southern Michigan on the Grand River. city in Ingham County, Eaton County and Clinton County, Michigan, USA and Michigan federated state capital city
a battle during the American Revolution (1777); the British under Burgoyne were defeated. major turning point of the American Revolutionary War
a river in the northeastern United States; flows south from northern New Hampshire along the border between New Hampshire and Vermont and through Massachusetts and Connecticut where it empties into Long Island Sound. river in the New England region of the United States
the largest ocean in the world. largest ocean on Earth
civil war in England between the Parliamentarians and the Royalists under Charles I; 1644-1648. series of armed conflicts and political machinations between Parliamentarians and Royalists
a mountain range in southwestern Colorado that is part of the Rocky Mountains. mountain range in Colorado, USA
the capital and largest city of Wales. capital city of Wales
a Nazi concentration camp for Jews in World War II that was located in central Germany. nazi concentration camp
a city in central Saskatchewan; the largest city in the province. city in Saskatchewan, Canada
an Asian river that rises in the Altai Mountains in northern China and flows generally northwest to become a tributary of the Ob River. river in China, Kazakhstan and Russia
a landlocked socialist republic in central Asia. country in East Asia, between China and Russia
a landlocked republic in south central Africa formerly called Rhodesia; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1980. republic in southern Africa
in Hinduism, goddess of purity and posterity and a benevolent aspect of Devi; the `brilliant'. female given name
an industrial city in the European part of Russia. city in Saratov Oblast, Russia
one of the 150 lyrical poems and prayers that comprise the Book of Psalms in the Old Testament; said to have been written by David. book of the Bible
a city in north central Morocco; religious center. City in Morocco
leader of the American Revolution who signed the Declaration of Independence and raised money for the Continental Army (1734-1806). American merchant
(Greek mythology) the brother of Jocasta and uncle of Antigone who became king of Thebes after the fall of Oedipus. king of Thebes in Greek mythology
German physiologist and histologist who in 1838 and 1839 identified the cell as the basic structure of plant and animal tissue (1810-1882). German physiologist
Dutch genre painter (1626-1679). painter from the Northern Netherlands
Irish writer noted for his sexually explicit but unreliable autobiography (1856-1931). Irish journalist and rogue
a fashionable section of Boston; site of the Massachusetts capital building. neighborhood
Soviet statesman and premier who denounced Stalin (1894-1971). First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union
an industrial city in western Germany on the Rhine. capital city of the German federated state of North Rhine-Westphalia
(Greek mythology) a prophetess in Troy during the Trojan War whose predictions were true but were never believed. mythological princess of Troy
Italian violin maker who developed the modern violin and created violins of unequaled tonal quality (1644?-1737). Italian violin maker
Scottish obstetrician and surgeon who pioneered in the use of ether and discovered the anesthetic effects of chloroform (1811-1870). British obstetrician
chief Hindu god of the Rig-Veda; god of rain and thunder. deity found in Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism
(Greek mythology) dragon killed by Apollo at Delphi. earth-dragon of Delphi
British industrialist who manufactured automobiles and created a philanthropic foundation (1877-1963). Industrialist and philanthropist
the capital of the Mexican state of Yucatan. Capital city of Yucatan, Mexico.
French inventor of the first practical photographic process, the daguerreotype (1789-1851). French photographer, artist and chemist and inventor of the Daguerrotype
the unsuccessful campaign in World War I (1915) by the English and French to open a passage for aid to Russia; defeated by the Turks. military campaign during World War I
English author of novels and poetry who was born in India (1865-1936). English short-story writer, poet, and novelist
Italian operatic soprano (born in 1922). Italian opera singer
(Greek mythology) Greek god of darkness who dwelt in the underworld; son of Chaos; brother of Nox; father of Aether and Day. primordial deity in Greek mythology
the largest and southernmost island in the Marianas which is administered as a territory of the United States; it was ceded by Spain to the United States in 1898. island territory of the United States of America
a university in Berkeley, California. public research university in Berkeley, California, United States
a city in eastern Iowa. city in Iowa
United States mathematician and founder of cybernetics (1894-1964). American mathematician
Italian nuclear physicist (in the United States after 1939) who worked on artificial radioactivity caused by neutron bombardment and who headed the group that in 1942 produced the first controlled nuclear reaction (1901-1954). Italian physicist
a county in southwestern England. non-metropolitan and ceremonial county in the west of England
a city in eastern Brazil to the northeast of Belo Horizonte. Brazilian city in the state of Minas Gerais
Italian architect and painter; pioneering theoretician of Renaissance architecture (1404-1472). Italian architect
Augustinian monk and botanist whose experiments in breeding garden peas led to his eventual recognition as founder of the science of genetics (1822-1884). Silesian scientist and Augustinian friar
a university town in central New Jersey. municipality in Mercer County, New Jersey
(Greek mythology) according to a Greek legend: when Pythias was sentenced to be executed Damon took his place to allow Pythias to get his affairs in order; when Pythias returned in time to save Damon the king was so impressed that he let them both live. mythical characters
French surgeon and biologist who developed a way to suture and graft blood vessels (1873-1944). French surgeon and biologist
Englishman and husband of Elizabeth II (born 1921). member of the British Royal Family, consort to Queen Elizabeth II
United States novelist who satirized middle-class America in his novel Main Street (1885-1951). American novelist, short-story writer, and playwright
a monarchy on a Polynesian archipelago in the South Pacific; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1970. country in Oceania
United States author who wrote the stories about Uncle Remus (1848-1908). Journalist, children's writer
goddess personifying earth; counterpart of Akkadian Aruru. babylonian goddess
supergiant star 650 light years from Earth; second brightest star in the sky. star in the constellation of Carina
largest of the Cape Verde Islands in the Atlantic Ocean. largest island of Cape Verde
(Greek mythology) queen of Thebes who unknowingly married her own son Oedipus. mythological queen of Thebes
largest city in Scotland; a port on the Clyde in west central Scotland; one of the great shipbuilding centers of the world. city in Scotland, UK; unitary authority
an ancient Roman road in Italy extending south from Rome to Brindisi; begun in 312 BC. roman road
United States humorist who wrote about rural life (1818-1885). American humorist
United States astronomer (1885-1972). American astronomer
Canadian novelist (born in 1931). Canadian author, screenwriter and essayist
emperor of Austria and king of Hungary; was defeated by Napoleon III at the battle of Magenta (1830-1916). Emperor of Austria and King of Hungary
the southern Solomon Islands that since 1978 form an independent state in the British Commonwealth. country in Oceania
uninhibited United States actress (1903-1968). American actress
a white marble mausoleum 140 feet high built in 352 BC at Halicarnassus as a memorial to a king; destroyed in 1402. It is one of the seven wonders of the ancient world.
king of Persia and founder of the Persian Empire (circa 600-529 BC). King and founder of the Achaemenid Empire
a city in northern Tanzania on Lake Victoria. port city in Tanzania
the brightest star in Taurus. red giant star
English economist who advocated the use of government monetary and fiscal policy to maintain full employment without inflation (1883-1946). British economist
United States historian and advisor to President Kennedy (born in 1917). American historian, social critic, and public intellectual
a popular resort town in the Alps in west central Switzerland. resort town in the Swiss canton of Bern
an island belonging to Norway in the South Atlantic near the Antarctic Circle. Norwegian uninhabited subantarctic volcanic island
a city in southeastern Germany on the Elbe River; it was almost totally destroyed by British air raids in 1945. capital city of the Free State of Saxony in Germany
United States painter (1887-1986). American artist
a radical terrorist group dedicated to the removal of British forces from Northern Ireland and the unification of Ireland. Irish republican socialist paramilitary group
the provincial capital of Saskatchewan. capital and the 2nd-largest city of Saskatchewan, Canada; originally named Wascana (뼰깺囹굑ffalo Bones뼰 in Cree); in 1882 selected as the seat of government of the Northwest Territories and renamed Regina (뼰깺力븋een뼰 in Latin) to honor Queen Victoria
a seaport on the Persian Gulf and capital of Kuwait. capital of Kuwait
a city in western Texas on the Mexican border; located on the northern bank of the Rio Grande across from the Mexican city of Juarez. county seat of El Paso County, Texas, United States
the mountain peak that Noah's ark landed on as the waters of the great flood receded. large peak in Turkey near Armenia
an industrial city in Chile to the south of Santiago. city in Chile
youngest daughter of the prophet Mohammed and wife of the fourth calif Ali; revered especially by Shiite Muslims (606-632). daughter of Muhammad and Khadijah
brightest star in Centaurus; second nearest star to the sun. star system in the constellation Centaurus
German Nazi dictator during World War II (1889-1945). F맚櫻컍er and Reich Chancellor of Germany, Leader of the Nazi Party
German mathematician who developed the theory of numbers and who applied mathematics to electricity and magnetism and astronomy and geodesy (1777-1855). German mathematician and physical scientist
capital and largest city of Iraq; located on the Tigris River. capital city of Iraq
a university in Baltimore. university in Baltimore, Maryland, United States
Spanish architect who was a leading exponent of art nouveau in Europe (1852-1926). Catalan architect
the period from about 5,400 million years ago until the present. fourth and current eon of the geological timescale
German philosopher (1776-1841). German philosopher, psychologist, and founder of pedagogy as an academic discipline
a city in eastern Washington near the Idaho border. county seat of Spokane County, Washington, United States
11th President of the United States; his expansionism led to the Mexican War and the annexation of California and much of the southwest (1795-1849). American politician, 11th President of the United States (in office from 1845 to 1849)
a North American river; flows into the Gulf of Saint Lawrence and the North Atlantic. large river in eastern Canada and the United States, flowing into the Gulf of Saint Lawrence
Russian ballet dancer (1910-1998). Soviet ballet dancer
a city in northwest Louisiana on the Red River near the Texas border. parish seat of Caddo Parish, Louisiana, United States
Danish physicist who studied atomic structure and radiations; the Bohr theory of the atom accounted for the spectrum of hydrogen (1885-1962). Danish physicist
French heroine and military leader inspired by religious visions to organize French resistance to the English and to have Charles VII crowned king; she was later tried for heresy and burned at the stake (1412-1431). French folk heroine and Roman Catholic saint
a secret society of white Southerners in the United States; was formed in the 19th century to resist the emancipation of slaves; used terrorist tactics to suppress Black people. American white supremacy group
the London residence of the British sovereign. official London residence and principal workplace of the British monarch
English writer whose novels depicted and criticized social injustice (1812-1870). English writer and social critic
(Greek mythology) the extremely dirty stables that were finally cleaned by Hercules who diverted two rivers through them. mythical character
United States physicist who directed the project at Los Alamos that developed the first atomic bomb (1904-1967). American theoretical physicist, scientific leader of the Manhattan Project and professor of physics
a mountain peak in the Rockies in central Colorado (14,109 feet high). mountain in the Rocky Mountains, Colorado, United States of America
river in eastern Asia; rises in North Korea and flows southwest to Korea Bay (forming part of the border between North Korea and China). river on the border between North Korea and China
English chemist honored for his research on pollutants in car exhausts (born in 1921). British Nobel laureate in Chemistry
United States country music singer and songwriter (1932-2003). American singer-songwriter and actor
United States baseball player (born in 1920). American baseball player
United States general in the Union Army who was defeated at Chancellorsville by Robert E. Lee (1814-1879). Union Army general
an industrial city in eastern France to the north of Lyons. commune in C?te-d'Or, France
Japanese admiral who planned the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 (1884-1943). Japanese Marshal Admiral
the royal charter of political rights given to rebellious English barons by King John in 1215. Angevin charter
a city on the Atlantic shore in southeastern New Jersey; a resort and gambling center. city in Atlantic County, New Jersey, United States
United States abolitionist who escaped from slavery and became an influential writer and lecturer in the North (1817-1895). American social reformer, orator, writer, abolitionist and statesman
French impressionist painter (1834-1917). French artist
a United States program of economic aid for the reconstruction of Europe (1948-1952); named after George Marshall. American program to aid Europe
(Roman Catholic Church) Roman priest who became bishop of Milan; the first Church Father born and raised in the Christian faith; composer of hymns; imposed orthodoxy on the early Christian church and built up its secular power; a saint and Doctor of the Church (340?-397). bishop of Milan; one of the four original doctors of the Church
a battle in the Meuse-Argonne operation in World War I (1918); the battle in which American troops launched their first offensive in France. battle of the 1st World War
from 544 million to about 230 million years ago. first era of the Phanerozoic Eon
an inlet of the Atlantic Ocean in southeastern Massachusetts. bay on the coast of Massachusetts, United States
English physiologist who conducted research into the function of neurons; 1st baron of Cambridge (1889-1997). Electrophysiologist
a faint constellation in the polar region of the southern hemisphere near Apus and Mensa. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
a Hebrew minor prophet. Hebrew prophet
a terrorist organization that is the militant wing of the Communist Party of the Philippines; a Maoist organization formed to overthrow the government; uses hit squads called Sparrow Units; opposes United States military presence in the Philippines. armed wing of the Communist Party of the Philippines
Afghan leader of forces opposed to the Taliban; won fame by successfully resisting the Soviets in the 1980s; was assassinated by men posing as journalists (1953-2001). Afghan military leader
United States tennis player who dominated women's tennis in the 1920s and 1930s (1905-1998). American tennis player
a New Testament book attributed to Saint Jude. book of the Bible
a brutal terrorist group active in Kashmir; fights against India with the goal of restoring Islamic rule of India. Pakistani militant group
a former province of north central France; centered around Orleans. historical province of France
a tributary of the Platte River. principal tributary of the Platte River
French bacteriologist born in Switzerland; was a student of Pasteur; discovered the plague bacillus (1863-1943). Swiss and French physician and bacteriologist
English playwright and pamphleteer (1570-1627). English playwright and poet
a mountain peak in the Andes in Bolivia (20,870 feet high). mountain
colony formed by the Pilgrims when they arrived at Plymouth Rock in 1620; it was absorbed into the Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1691. 17th century English possession in North America
German statesman; chancellor of West Germany (1876-1967). German statesman, Federal Chancellor of Germany, politician (CDU)
United States feminist (1885-1977). American suffragette
a group of islands in the southeastern West Indies. island arc in the Caribbean Sea
United States astronomer who discovered the planet Pluto (1906-1997). American astronomer
an epic poem written in Middle High German and based on the legends of Siegfried and Teutonic kings. literary work
a town in northeast South Carolina; transportation center. county seat of Florence County, South Carolina, United States
Athenian rhetorician and orator (436-338 BC). ancient Athenian rhetorician
rock star and drummer for the Beatles (born in 1940). British musician, drummer of the Beatles
a town in Louisiana on the Red River. parish seat of Rapides Parish, Louisiana, United States
a conspicuous constellation in the southern hemisphere near the Southern Cross. stellar constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
son of Alexander II who was czar of Russia (1845-1894). Emperor of Russia
German fortifications facing the Maginot Line. German defensive line used in World War 2
from 135 million to 63 million years ago; end of the age of reptiles; appearance of modern insects and flowering plants. third and last period of the Mesozoic Era
Russian founder of the Bolsheviks and leader of the Russian Revolution and first head of the USSR (1870-1924). Russian politician, communist theorist and founder of the Soviet Union
English physician who in retirement compiled a well-known thesaurus (1779-1869). Physician, philologist
(Greek mythology) daughter of Zeus and Demeter; made queen of the underworld by Pluto in ancient mythology; identified with Roman Proserpina. daughter of Zeus and the harvest-goddess Demeter, and queen of the underworld in Greek mythology
a city in north central Nigeria; agricultural trading center. city and local government area in Nigeria
Polish patriot and soldier who fought with Americans in the American Revolution (1746-1817). Polish and American military leader
a constitutional monarchy on the western part of the islands of Samoa in the South Pacific. country in Oceania
a national park on an island in Michigan; includes prehistoric iron mines. US National Park on Isle Royale
United States journalist who advocated liberal causes (1907-1989). American investigative journalist and author
a range of the Appalachian Mountains that extends from south to north through Vermont. mountain range in Vermont, U.S.
United States novelist noted for his stories of American Indians and the frontier life (1789-1851). American author
a major river of Asia in northern China; flows generally eastward into the Yellow Sea; carries large quantities of yellow silt to its delta. second longest river in China
a state in southeastern Australia. state in Australia
Austrian composer and son of Strauss the Elder; composed many famous waltzes and became known as the `waltz king' (1825-1899). Austrian composer
a city in southeastern Spain that was the capital of the Moorish kingdom until it was captured by Ferdinand and Isabella in 1492; site of the Alhambra (a palace and fortress built by Moors in the Middle Ages) which is now a major tourist attraction. municipality in the autonomous community of Andalusia, Spain
an active volcano in eastern Congo. volcano
United States jazz musician; noted for his trumpet style (1926-1991). American jazz musician
United States designer noted for an innovative series of chairs (1907-1978). American designers
Emperor of Rome who stopped the persecution of Christians and in 324 made Christianity the official religion of the Roman Empire; in 330 he moved his capital from Rome to Byzantium and renamed it Constantinople (280-337). Former King of Greece
a city in the Asian part of Russia. city in Russia
Chinese philosopher regarded as the founder of Taoism (6th century BC). semi-legendary Chinese figure, attributed to the 6th century, regarded as the author of the Tao Te Ching and founder of Taoism
a city in north central California 75 miles to the northeast of San Francisco on the Sacramento River; capital of California. city in and county seat of Sacramento County, California, United States, that is also the capitol of California
Russian dancer who danced with Nijinsky (1885-1978). Russian ballet dancer
a landlocked republic in east central Africa on the northeastern shore of Lake Tanganyika. country in Africa
the strait separating South America from Tierra del Fuego and other islands to the south of the continent; discovered by Ferdinand Magellan in 1520; an important route around South America before the Panama Canal was built. body of water in Chile connecting Atlantic and Pacific Oceans
French painter (born in Hungary) who was a pioneer of op art (1908-1997). French-Hungarian painter and printmaker
English novelist; oldest of three Bronte sisters (1816-1855). English novelist and poet
a mountainous island in western Indonesia. island in western Indonesia, westernmost of the Sunda Islands
Norwegian novelist (1882-1949). Norwegian writer
a desert in southwestern Africa - largely Botswana. desert in southern Africa
an ancient country in southwestern Asia on the east coast of the Mediterranean Sea; a place of pilgrimage for Christianity and Islam and Judaism. term used by Jews, Christians, and Muslims to describe the Land of Israel and Palestine
(Roman mythology) goddess of victory; counterpart of Greek Nike. Roman goddess of victory
a republic in the eastern part of the Balkan Peninsula in southeastern Europe. republic in Eastern Europe
a national park in Colorado having mountains and lakes and streams and forests. national park of the United States
(Old Testament) in Judeo-Christian mythology; the first man and the husband of Eve and the progenitor of the human race. biblical figure in the Book of Genesis
evil Egyptian god with the head of a beast that has high square ears and a long snout; brother and murderer of Osiris. god of the desert, storms, and foreigners in ancient Egyptian religion
a town in central England on the River Avon; birthplace (and burial place) of William Shakespeare. town in Warwickshire, England
part of the Arctic Ocean to the north of Siberia and to the east of the Barents Sea; icebound most of the year. marginal sea of the Arctic Ocean north of Asia
a city in northeastern Bulgaria (north of Varna) that is the commercial center of an agricultural region. city in Bulgaria
United States lyricist who collaborated with Richard Rodgers (1895-1943). American lyricist
a drug cartel that seized control of cocaine production in Colombia in 1993; adopted techniques used by terrorist organizations (small cells and sophisticated communications equipment and close ties with politicians etc.). disbanded drug cartel which was based in southern Colombia
the capital and largest city of Puerto Rico. municipality and capital of Puerto Rico
a dwarf in one of the fairy stories of the brothers Grimm; tells a woman he will not hold her to a promise if she can guess his name and when she discovers it he is so furious that he destroys himself. fairy tale
an inlet of the Yellow Sea, on the coast of Eastern China. bay
a republic in the western Balkans in south-central Europe in the eastern Adriatic coastal area; formerly part of the Habsburg monarchy and Yugoslavia; became independent in 1991. republic in Central Europe
a strait between Korea and Japan; connects the East China Sea and the Sea of Japan. sea passage between Japan and South Korea
a town in central Wyoming. city in, and the county seat of, Fremont County, Wyoming, United States
the western part of the ancient region of Frisia in northern Europe on the North Sea between the Scheldt river and the Weser river; part of this region is now a province in the Netherlands. province of the Netherlands
the capital and largest city of Sri Lanka; has one of the largest harbors in the world; is located on the western coast of the island of Ceylon. commercial capital of Sri Lanka
United States lawyer famous for his defense of lost causes (1857-1938). American lawyer and leading member of the American Civil Liberties Union
English novelist and poet (1840-1928). English novelist and poet
a university town in California. city in Santa Clara County, California, United States
French physiologist noted for research on secretions of the alimentary canal and the glycogenic function of the liver (1813-1878). French physiologist
part of the Bay of Bengal to the west of the Malay Peninsula. sea
a voracious giant in Francois Rabelais' book of the same name. five novels by Fran?ois Rabelais
United States songwriter (1899-1981). American composer, pianist, singer, actor and bandleader
French physicist who invented the alcohol thermometer (1683-1757). French scientist
(Greek mythology) goddess of discord; sister of Ares. Greek goddess of chaos and discord
chief god; counterpart of Norse Odin and Teutonic Wotan. major god in Norse mythology
God when considered as the first person in the Trinity. in Christianity, the first of the three persons of the Trinity, who begets the Son and from whom the Holy Spirit proceeds
the region of the United States lying to the west of the Mississippi River. region comprising the westernmost states of the United States
peninsula in northern Europe that forms the continental part of Denmark and a northern part of Germany. mainland of Denmark, a peninsula north of Germany
Hindu goddess of dawn; daughter of the sky and sister of the night. Goddess of dawn in Hinduism
French physicist noted for research on magnetism (born in 1904). French physicist
the sustainer; a Hindu divinity worshipped as the preserver of worlds. Hindu god, basis of Vaishnavism
English clergyman and founder of Methodism (1703-1791). Founder of the Methodist movement
Danish linguist (1860-1943). Danish linguist
Anglo-Saxon king of Kent who was converted to Christianity by Saint Augustine; codified English law (552-616). King of Kent
United States astronaut; the first man to set foot on the Moon (July 20, 1969) (1930-). American astronaut; first person to walk on the moon
Scottish explorer who led Arctic expeditions that yielded geographic discoveries while searching for the Northwest Passage (1777-1856). British naval officer and Arctic explorer
an arm of the Arabian Sea connecting it with the Persian Gulf. strait that connects the Arabian Sea with the Strait of Hormuz
the area of the states of North Dakota and South Dakota. geographic region of the U.S.
a barrier island running parallel to the North Carolina shore. island in North Carolina, United States of America
United States dancer and choreographer (born in England) (1909-1987). British dancer and choreographer
a landlocked desert republic in north-central Africa; was under French control until 1960. country in central Africa
an Old Testament book telling Hosea's prophecies. book of the Bible
a European river; flows into the North Sea. river in western Europe
a valley in southeastern Greece where the Nemean Games were held. ancient site in the northeastern part of the Peloponnese, in Greece
a radical left-wing revolutionary terrorist group active in Germany from 1968 until 1977. militant group in West-Germany
wife of Ahab who was king of Israel; according to the Old Testament she was a cruel immoral queen who fostered the worship of Baal and tried to kill Elijah and other prophets of Israel (9th century BC). biblical Phoenician princess
French writer and film maker who worked in many artistic media (1889-1963). French poet, novelist, dramatist, designer, boxing manager and filmmaker
( geology) a depression in southwestern Asia and eastern Africa; extends from the valley of the Jordan River to Mozambique; marked by geological faults. continuous geographic trench
English scientist and Franciscan monk who stressed the importance of experimentation; first showed that air is required for combustion and first used lenses to correct vision (1220-1292). medieval philosopher and theologian
United States mathematician (born in Austria) who is remembered principally for demonstrating the limitations of axiomatic systems (1906-1978). Austrian-American logician, mathematician, and philosopher of mathematics
the second largest reservoir in the United States; located in southern Utah and north central Arizona and formed by the Glen Canyon Dam on the Colorado River. reservoir in the United States
French writer whose novels described the sordid side of city life (1804-1857). French writer
(Roman Catholic Church) a Church Father who was a great preacher and bishop of Constantinople; a saint and Doctor of the Church (347-407). important Early Church Father
United States poet of the beat generation (1926-1997). American poet
United States golfer known for the graceful arc of his swing (1912-2002). American golfer
king of Sweden who kept Sweden neutral during both World War I and II (1858-1950). king of Sweden
the larger but less populous of two main islands of New Zealand; separated from North Island by Cook Strait. southernmost and largest of the two main islands in New Zealand
United States film actor whose moody rebellious roles made him a cult figure (1931-1955). American actor
the part of the Atlantic that lies off the Norwegian coast to the north of the North Sea. marginal sea in the North Atlantic Ocean
German historian noted for his history of Rome (1817-1903). German classical scholar, historian, jurist, journalist, politician, archaeologist and writer
(Greek mythology) a maiden who was first a sculpture created by Pygmalion and was brought to life by Aphrodite in answer to Pygmalion's prayers. Greek mythological figure
a port in eastern Canada; the largest city in New Brunswick. city in New Brunswick, Canada
Spanish operatic tenor noted for performances in operas by Verdi and Puccini (born in 1941). Spanish tenor and conductor
a river that rises in southeastern Kentucky and flows westward through northern Tennessee to become a tributary of the Ohio River in southwestern Kentucky. river in the United States of America
Austrian composer and conductor (1860-1911). late-Romantic Austrian composer
Italian pope from 1458 to 1464 who is remembered for his unsuccessful attempt to lead a crusade against the Turks (1405-1464). pope
a prolific British baroque composer (born in Germany) remembered best for his oratorio Messiah (1685-1759). German, later British Baroque composer
urban areas in New England and Midwest characterized by concentrations of declining industries (steel or textiles). region of the United States in the Midwest and the Great Lakes, in which industry declined since the 1980s, experiencing deindustrialization, economic decline, population loss, or urban decay
the first book of the Old Testament: tells of Creation; Adam and Eve; the Fall of Man; Cain and Abel; Noah and the flood; God's covenant with Abraham; Abraham and Isaac; Jacob and Esau; Joseph and his brothers. the first book of the Holy Bible
a small but violent terrorist organization formed in Ecuador in the early 1990s; responsible for bombing several government buildings. political party
capital of Pennsylvania; located in southern part of state. county seat in Dauphin County, Pennsylvania, United States and Pennsylvania federated state capital city
Canadian novelist (1874-1942). Canadian fiction writer
an expedition sent by Thomas Jefferson to explore the northwestern territories of the United States; led by Meriwether Lewis and William Clark; traveled from St. Louis to the mouth of the Columbia River from 1803 to 1806. American overland expedition to the Pacific coast
United States golfer (1902-1971). American amateur golfer and lawyer
one of the four countries that make up the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; located on the northern part of the island of Great Britain; famous for bagpipes and plaids and kilts. country in Northwest Europe, part of the United Kingdom
a district in southeast central Scotland (south side of the Firth of Forth) and the location of Edinburgh. former local government region of Scotland
the capital of Brazil; a city built on the central plateau and inaugurated in 1960. capital city of Brazil and seat of the Federal District
a city in southeastern Arizona ringed by mountain ranges; long known as a winter and health resort but the population shift from industrial states to the Sunbelt resulted in rapid growth late in the 20th century. county seat of Pima County, Arizona, United States
United States physician who specialized in diseases of the intestines; he was the first to describe regional ileitis which is now known as Crohn's disease (1884-1983). American gastroenterologist
English novelist; youngest of three Bronte sisters (1820-1849). English novelist and poet
United States lecturer and writer who was blind and deaf from the age of 19 months; Anne Sullivan taught her to read and write and speak; Helen Keller graduated from college and went on to champion the cause of blind and deaf people (1880-1968). U.S. author and political activist for women's suffrage, labor rights, socialism, and antimilitarism; the 1st deaf-blind person to earn a bachelor's degree
Austrian chemist who did research on carotenoids and vitamins (1900-1967). Austrian-German biochemist
a desert on the Arabian Peninsula in southwestern Asia. desert located in Western Asia
a region of central France to the west of the Auvergne mountains. former administrative region in France
a nation occupying the whole of the Australian continent; Aboriginal tribes are thought to have migrated from southeastern Asia 20,000 years ago; first Europeans were British convicts sent there as a penal colony. country in Oceania
Irish playwright remembered for his satirical comedies of manners (1751-1816). Irish-British politician, playwright and writer
a port city and capital of Gambia. capital of The Gambia
German philosopher who advocated intuition over reason (1744-1803). German philosopher, theologian, poet, and literary critic
a city in Tuscany; site of the famous Leaning Tower. city in Tuscany, Central Italy
United States composer and musical theorist (born in Austria) who developed atonal composition (1874-1951). Austrian-American composer
a constellation in the northern hemisphere near Pegasus and Aquila. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
British chemist and physicist who established that water is a compound of hydrogen and oxygen and who calculated the density of the earth (1731-1810). British natural philosopher, scientist, and an important experimental and theoretical chemist and physicist
a demon personifying death; messenger of the underworld goddess Ereshkigal bringing death to mankind. deity
the seventh sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about September 23 to October 22. zodiac constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
the administrative capital and largest city of Papua New Guinea. capital of Papua New Guinea
a satirical novel written by Samuel Butler (1872) describing a fictitious land. novel by Samuel Butler
civil war in Spain in which Franco succeeded in overthrowing the republican government; during the war Spain became a battleground for fascists and socialists from all countries; 1936-1939. chronology of events of the year 1937 in the Spanish Civil War (1936-39)
the period from 1378 to 1417 during which there were two papacies in the Roman Catholic Church, one in Rome and one in Avignon. split within the Catholic Church from 1378 to 1417
a war between China and Japan (1894 and 1895) over the control of the Korean Peninsula; China was overwhelmingly defeated at Port Arthur. military conflict between the Republic of China and the Empire of Japan from 1937 to 1945
a region in California to the south of San Francisco that is noted for its concentration of high-technology industries. subregion of the San Francisco Bay Area in the United States
a constellation on the equator to the east of Taurus; contains Betelgeuse and Rigel. constellation straddling the celestial equator
a river that rises in western Massachusetts and flows south through Connecticut to empty into Long Island Sound. river in the United States of America
a battle in World War II in the Pacific (1942-1943); the island was occupied by the Japanese and later recaptured by American forces. U.S. military campaign in World War II
a city in central Chile to the south of Concepcion. city in Chile
a classical Greek god after the overthrow of the Titans. the major deities of the Greek pantheon
a square in central London where there is a memorial to Admiral Nelson. public space and tourist attraction in central London
the longest river in the United States; arises in Montana and flows southeastward to become a tributary of the Mississippi at Saint Louis. major river in the central United States, tributary of the Mississippi
German geophysicist who proposed the theory of continental drift (1880-1930). German meteorologist, geologist and astronomer
English economist who argued that the laws of supply and demand should operate in a free market (1772-1823). British political economist, broker and politician
a republic in north central Europe on the North Sea; established in 1949 from the zones of Germany occupied by the British and French and Americans after the German defeat; reunified with East Germany in 1990. Federal Republic of Germany in the years 1949뼰1990
English actor on stage and in films (1908-1990). English film and stage actor
an Old Testament book telling the prophecies of Haggai which are concerned mainly with rebuilding the temples after the Babylonian Captivity. book of the Bible
Florentine navigator who explored the eastern coast of North America (circa 1485-1528). Italian explorer of North America for France
Florida's largest city; a port and important commercial center in northeastern Florida. county seat of Duval County, Florida, United States; consolidated city and county
(Greek mythology) wife of Agamemnon who had him murdered when he returned from the Trojan War. figure from Greek mythology
(Akkadian) god ruling with his consort Ereshkigal the world of the dead. underworld deity worshipped throughout Mesopotamia
an inactive volcano in the Andes in southern Peru; last erupted in 1783. volcano in Peru
a revolution for agrarian reforms led in northern Mexico by Pancho Villa and in southern Mexico by Emiliano Zapata (1910-1911). major armed struggle in Mexico between 1910 and 1920
British physicist (born in Hungary) noted for his work on holography (1900-1979). Nobel Prize-winning physicist and inventor of holography
German philosopher concerned with concept formation in the human mind and with symbolic forms in human culture generally (1874-1945). German philosopher
a national park in Washington that is an alpine wilderness area featuring gold rush and logging campsites. U.S. National Park located in the state of Washington
a peninsula in Central America extending into the Gulf of Mexico between the Bay of Campeche and the Caribbean Sea. peninsula in North America
an ancient country in western and central Asia Minor. ancient kingdom in Anatolia
a United States Air Force defense laboratory responsible for discovering and developing and integrating fighting technologies for aerospace forces. scientific research organization operated by the United States Air Force
a large commercial and industrial city in northeastern Texas located in the heart of the northern Texas oil fields. county seat of Dallas County, Texas; ninth largest city in the United States by population
the final battle of the War of the Roses in 1471 in which Edward IV defeated the Lancastrians. battle
Indonesian statesman who obtained the independence of Indonesia from the Netherlands in 1949 and served as president until ousted by Suharto in a coup d'etat (1901-1970). first President of the Republic of Indonesia
a city in central Italy on the Arno; provincial capital of Tuscany; center of the Italian Renaissance from 14th to 16th centuries. Italian city, located in Tuscany
German philosopher whose views on human existence in a world of objects and on Angst influenced the existential philosophers (1889-1976). German philosopher
a soldier of the American Revolution who was hanged as a spy by the British; his last words were supposed to have been `I only regret that I have but one life to give for my country' (1755-1776). soldier for the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War
United States jurist and chief justice of the United States Supreme Court (1833-1910). United States federal judge
(Greek mythology) the goddess of youth and spring; wife of Hercules; daughter of Zeus and Hera; cupbearer to the Olympian gods. Greek goddess of youth
islands between the Outer Hebrides and the western coast of Scotland. archipelago off the west coast of mainland Scotland
a state in northern India. Indian state
English poet and critic (1909-1995). English poet and man of letters
Chinese revolutionary and communist leader (1898-1976). 1st Premier of the People's Republic of China
a town in southern New Mexico on the Rio Grande. county seat of Do?a Ana County, New Mexico, United States
emperor of Ethiopia; worshipped by Rastafarians (1892-1975). Emperor of Ethiopia
Norwegian chemist noted for his research on organic molecules (1897-1981). Norwegian physical chemist and Nobel Laureate
god of the Canaanites and Phoenicians to whom parents sacrificed their children. Biblical name of a Canaanite god; a dysphemic vocalisation in the Second Temple period of a theonym based on the root MLK ("king")
United States newspaper publisher who founded an important press association; half-brother of James Edmund Scripps (1854-1926). newspaper publisher
capital of Nigeria in the center of the country. capital city of Nigeria
a country in southeastern Asia on the island of Singapore; achieved independence from Malaysia in 1965. republic in Southeast Asia
a suspension bridge across the Delaware River. suspension bridge between Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Camden, New Jersey
French painter who was an early cubist (1881-1955). French painter
Spanish writer best remembered for `Don Quixote' which satirizes chivalry and influenced the development of the novel form (1547-1616). Spanish novelist, poet, and playwright
the 2nd longest European river (after the Volga); flows from southwestern Germany to the Black Sea. river in Central Europe
a city in northeast Minnesota on Lake Superior. city in Minnesota, United States; county seat of St. Louis County
(Roman Catholic Church) Spanish priest who founded an order whose members became known as Dominicans or Black Friars (circa 1170-1221). founder of the Dominican Order
a mountain peak in the Karakoram Range in northern Kashmir; the 2nd highest peak in the world (28,250 feet high). the second-highest mountain on Earth, located on the China뼰깺壤땇kistan border in a region also claimed by India
a town in southeastern Connecticut near Long Island Sound; an important whaling center in the 19th century. City in Connecticut, United States
the temporal dominions belonging to the pope (especially in central Italy). territories in the Appenine Peninsula under the sovereign direct rule of the pope between 752뼰1870
a mythical Greek hero of the Iliad; a foremost Greek warrior at the siege of Troy; when he was a baby his mother tried to make him immortal by bathing him in a magical river but the heel by which she held him remained vulnerable--his `Achilles' heel'. Greek mythological hero
French botanist who categorized plants into families and developed a system of plant classification (1748-1836). French botanist
the enormous gorge of the Colorado River in northern Arizona. steep-sided canyon carved by the Colorado River in Arizona
United States economist (born in Russia) who developed a method for using a country's gross national product to estimate its economic growth (1901-1985). economist
United States virologist who developed the Salk vaccine that is injected against poliomyelitis (born 1914). Inventor of polio vaccine
beautiful mausoleum at Agra built by the Mogul emperor Shah Jahan (completed in 1649) in memory of his favorite wife. marble mausoleum in Agra, India
Queen of England for nine days in 1553; she was quickly replaced by Mary Tudor and beheaded for treason (1537-1554). English noblewoman and deposed Queen of England
a town in central Kansas. city in and the county seat of Saline County, Kansas, United States
a port city in southern Wales on an inlet of the Bristol Channel. coastal city in Wales
German composer; collaborated with Bertolt Brecht (1900-1950). German composer
United States baseball player (born in 1931). American baseball player
a Roman poet; author of the epic poem `Aeneid' (70-19 BC). Ancient Roman poet
a radical terrorist group that broke away in 1997 when the mainstream Provisional IRA proposed a cease-fire; has continued terrorist activities in opposition to any peace agreement. Irish republican paramilitary organization
the capital and largest city of Zimbabwe. capital of Zimbabwe
a city in eastern North Carolina; tobacco market. county seat of Pitt County, North Carolina, United States
Ethiopia is a republic in northeastern Africa on the Red Sea; formerly called Abyssinia. country in East Africa
United States freed slave and insurrectionist in South Carolina who was involved in planning an uprising of slaves and was hanged (1767-1822). American rebel slave
bishop of Antioch who was martyred under the Roman Emperor Trajan (died 110). Patriarch of Antioch and martyr saint
a republic in north central Europe on the Baltic; established by the Soviet Union in 1954; reunified with West Germany in 1990. former communist country, 1949-1990
Italian physiologist noted for his discovery that frogs' muscles contracted in an electric field (which led to the galvanic cell) (1737-1798). Italian physician, physicist, and philosopher
a port city in western Greece in the northwestern Peloponnese on an inlet of the Ionian Sea; was a major trade center from the 5th century BC to the 3rd century BC; commercial importance revived during the Middle Ages. city in Greece
the islands in the Lesser Antilles that are administered by France. French territories in the Caribbean
the time from 3,800 million years to 2,500 million years ago; earth's crust formed; unicellular organisms are earliest forms of life. second eon of the geologic timescale
(Greek mythology) the Greek god of sleep; the son of Nyx. personification of sleep in Greek mythology
United States civil rights worker in Mississippi; was killed by a sniper (1925-1963). African-American civil rights activist
United States portrait painter who patented the telegraph and developed the Morse code (1791-1872). American painter and inventor
heroine of the American Revolution who carried water to soldiers during the Battle of Monmouth Court House and took over her husband's gun when he was overcome by heat (1754-1832). Woman soldier in American Revolutionary War
an ancient country in northwestern Asia Minor in what is now Turkey; was absorbed into the Roman Empire by the end of the 1st century BC. region in Anatolia
French sculptor noted for his renderings of the human form (1840-1917). French sculptor
a region of southern Italy (forming the toe of the Italian `boot'). region in Italy
United States toxicologist known for her work on industrial poisons (1869-1970). American physician and toxicologist
a bay on the northern coast of Alaska where oil was discovered in 1968. census designated place
United States physicist (born in China) who collaborated with Yang Chen Ning in disproving the principle of conservation of parity (born in 1926). Chinese-American physicist
capital and largest city in South Carolina; located in central South Carolina. capital of South Carolina, United States
(Akkadian) mother of the gods and consort of Apsu. primordial goddess of the ocean
a city in west central Tunisia. Tunisian town
a city in eastern England on the River Cam; site of Cambridge University. city in Cambridgeshire, England
hills in southern India. Range of mountains.
a port city of southern Myanmar on the Gulf of Martaban. city
a state in southwestern United States on the Mexican border. state of the United States of America
a city in northeastern Ukraine; former capital of the Ukraine. city of Ukraine
the monster created by Frankenstein in a gothic novel by Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley (the creator's name is commonly used to refer to his creation). fictional character created by Mary Shelley
United States dancer and film actress who partnered with Fred Astaire (1911-1995). American actress and dancer
a region in southern Spain on the Atlantic and the Mediterranean; formerly a center of Moorish civilization. Autonomous community of Spain
English statesman who brought the Seven Years' War to an end (1708-1778). British politician
a powerful and wealthy terrorist organization formed in 1957 as the guerilla arm of the Colombian communist party; opposed to the United States; has strong ties to drug dealers. irregular military
a river that rises in Russia near Smolensk and flowing south through Belarus and Ukraine to empty into the Black Sea. longest river of Ukraine and Belarus
Italian painter noted for his realistic depiction of religious subjects and his novel use of light (1573-1610). Italian painter
a university town in central New Jersey. city in Middlesex County, New Jersey, United States
Italian noblewoman and patron of the arts (1480-1519). Italian noblewoman
a port in eastern Georgia near the mouth of the Savannah river. county seat of Chatham County, Georgia, United States
United States conductor (born in Russia) who was noted for performing the works of contemporary composers (1874-1951). Russian conductor and composer
a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Reticulum and Pictor; contains most of the Large Magellanic Cloud. constellation in the southern sky
a battle in the Seven Years' War (1757); Prussian forces under Frederick the Great defeated the armies of France and Austria. battle
United States playwright (1906-1963). American playwright, screenwriter, director and actor
German painter of religious works (1465-1524). German painter
Vietnamese communist statesman who fought the Japanese in World War II and the French until 1954 and South Vietnam until 1975 (1890-1969). Vietnamese communist leader and Chairman of the Workers' Party of Vietnam
English beauty who was the mistress of Admiral Nelson (1765-1815). Mistress of Lord Nelson
an isle and county of southern England in the English Channel. island and county of England
(Roman Catholic Church) an Italian pope distinguished for his spiritual and temporal leadership; a saint and Doctor of the Church (540?-604). Pope from 590 to 604
Arabian physician and influential Islamic philosopher; his interpretation of Aristotle influenced St. Thomas Aquinas; writings on medicine were important for almost 500 years (980-1037). medieval Persian polymath, physician, and philosopher
Roman general famous for giving lavish banquets (110-57 BC). ancient roman statesman
an island territory of France located in the eastern West Indies; tourism is the major industry. Caribbean department of France
son of Louis VII whose reign as king of France saw wars with the English that regained control of Normandy and Anjou and most of Poitou (1165-1223). King of France from 1180 to 1223, and the first to be called by that title
an Aztec deity represented as a plumed serpent. mesoamerican deity (Toltec and Aztec god of the sea)
a republic in central Europe; the invasion of Poland by Germany in 1939 started World War II. republic in Central Europe
a canal that connects Lake Okeechobee with the Caloosahatchee River in southern Florida to form part of the Cross-Florida Waterway. river on the southwest Gulf Coast of Florida in the United States
a town in Massachusetts founded by Pilgrims in 1620. county seat town in Plymouth County, Massachusetts, United States
the large temple of the Greek goddess Artemis which was begun at Ephesus in 541 BC and completed 220 years later; the temple was destroyed by the Goths in 262. temple in Ephesus
a mountain range in the northwestern United States extending through Washington and Oregon and northern California; a part of the Coast Range. mountain range in western North America
United States civil rights leader (1901-1981). African american rights activist
a town in northern New Jersey where the Continental Army spent two winters. town in Morris County, New Jersey, USA
a resort town in Lancashire in northwestern England on the Irish Sea; famous for its tower. town in Lancashire, England
United States biochemist (born in Spain) who studied the biological synthesis of nucleic acids (1905-1993). Spanish physician
a radio broadcast journalist during World War I and World War II noted for his nightly new broadcast (1892-1981). American journalist, news analyst and businessman
United States labor leader who organized the longshoremen (1901-1990). American labor leader
the capital of Ecuador. capital of Ecuador and most populous city.
a landlocked monarchy in southeastern Africa; member of the commonwealth that achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1968. country in Africa
English architect (1664-1726). English architect and dramatist
a port city in southwestern Norway. city in Hordaland, Norway
Russian poet who died in a prison camp (1891-1938). Russian poet and essayist
a lake in the mountains of central Africa between Congo and Rwanda. meromictic lake
a town of east central Texas. city in Texas, USA
(Greek mythology) the supreme god of ancient Greek mythology; son of Rhea and Cronus whom he dethroned; husband and brother of Hera; brother of Poseidon and Hades; father of many gods; counterpart of Roman Jupiter. god of Greek mythology, ruler of the Olympians
a mountain peak in central Washington; highest peak in the Cascade Range; (14,410 feet high). stratovolcano in the U.S. state of Washington
a town in north central New Mexico; in 1942 it was chosen as a nuclear research site where the first atomic bombs were produced. townsite in New Mexico
a vast region in Asia including the Mongolian People's Republic and China's Inner Mongolia. country in East Asia, between China and Russia
a county in southern England on the English Channel; formerly an Anglo-Saxon kingdom that was captured by Wessex in the 9th century. historic county in South East England
a terrorist group of radical Palestinians who split with al-Fatah in 1967 but now have close relations with al-Fatah; staged terrorist attacks against Israel across the Lebanese border. political party
a province in southeastern central China between the Nan Ling mountains and the Chang Jiang; noted for its timber and valuable mineral resources. landlocked province in China
a river that rises in the Pyrenees and flows northwest to the Bay of Biscay. river in southwest France and northern Spain
patron saint of shoemakers; he and his brother were martyred for trying to spread Christianity (3rd century). Christian patron saints of cobblers, tanners, and leather workers
English film actress who later became a member of British Parliament (born in 1936). British politician and actress
a town in northeast Missouri on the Mississippi River; boyhood home of Mark Twain. city in Missouri, USA
French writer whose novels were the first to feature psychological analysis of the character (1783-1842). French writer
United States pianist (born in Poland) known for his interpretations of the music of Chopin (1886-1982). Polish-American classical pianist
English statesman; member of the Conservative Party (1848-1930). British Conservative politician and statesman
the brightest star in the Southern Cross. star in the constellation Crux
Scottish chemist noted for his research into the structure of nucleic acids (born in 1907). British biochemist
United States architect (born in Germany) and founder of the Bauhaus school (1883-1969). German architect (1883-1969)
United States actress and singer (1896-1977). American blues, jazz and gospel vocalist and actress
English poet who introduced the sonnet form to English literature (1503-1542). English poet and diplomat (1503-1542)
United States civil rights leader (1921-1971). American civil rights leader
the brightest star in Leo. star in the constellation Leo
a Veda consisting of a collection of Hindu poems dating from before 2000 BC. most ancient Veda of the Hindus
an old town in southern Mississippi on the Gulf of Mexico. city in Harrison County, Mississippi
United States writer of darkly humorous novels (born in 1942). American novelist and screenwriter
French physicist who (with her husband) synthesized new chemical elements (1897-1956). French scientist
(Greek mythology) a river in Hades across which Charon carried dead souls. river in Greek mythology that formed the boundary between Earth and the Underworld
a Russian river in Siberia; rises in mountains near the Mongolian border and flows generally northward into the Kara Sea. river flowing through Russia
Italian painter and sculptor and engineer and scientist and architect; the most versatile genius of the Italian Renaissance (1452-1519). Italian Renaissance polymath
United States writer of poems and plays about racial conflict (born in 1934). African-American writer
United States film actress (1892-1980). American actress and sex symbol
battle of World War II (1944). battle of the Western Front, World War I
a city in southern Chile on the Strait of Magellan; the southernmost city in the world. Chilean city beside the Strait of Magellan
a river in central Europe that arises in northwestern Czechoslovakia and flows northward through Germany to empty into the North Sea. major river in Central Europe
a lake in central China that is connected to the Chang Jiang by a canal. Largest freshwater lake in China and is located in Jiangxi Province
United States astronomer who studied sunspots and nebulae (1818-1889). American astronomer
a landlocked republic in southern central Africa; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1964. country in Africa
a city in southern India. city in Tamil Nadu, India
inlet of the Ionian Sea between central Greece and the Peloponnesus. bay
Canadian explorer (born in England) who explored the Mackenzie River and who was first to cross North America by land north of Mexico (1764-1820). Scottish explorer
German painter and engraver noted for his portraits; he was commissioned by Henry VIII to provide portraits of the English king's prospective brides (1497-1543). German artist and printmaker
English philosopher credited with reviving the field of moral philosophy (1929-2003). English Protestant theologian and founder of the colony of Providence Plantation
United States writer (born in Lebanon) (1883-1931). Lebanese artist, poet, and writer
French poet whose work influenced the surrealists (1854-1891). French Decadent and Symbolist poet
German mathematician (1804-1851). German mathematician
a coast of the Pacific Ocean. part of any country's coast bordering the Pacific Ocean
United States actor and comedian (born in 1945). American actor, comedian, musician, author, playwright, and producer
United States writer (born in 1942). American novelist, poet, memoirist, critic
a group of islands in the Arctic Ocean to the north of Siberia and to the east of the Laptev Sea. island group in Russia
Dutch painter whose work (intersecting lines at right angles and planes in primary colors) influenced the development of abstract art (1872-1944). Dutch painter
Indian religious leader who founded Sikhism in dissent from the caste system of Hinduism; he taught that all men had a right to search for knowledge of God and that spiritual liberation could be attained by meditating on the name of God (1469-1538). Founder of Sikhism
Japanese molecular biologist noted for his studies of how the immune system produces antibodies (born in 1939). Japanese biologist
a city in northwest Indiana on Lake Michigan; steel production. city in Lake County, Indiana, United States
Babylonian king who codified the laws of Sumer and Mesopotamia (died 1750 BC). sixth king of Babylon
an Old Testament book consisting of a collection of love poems traditionally attributed to Solomon but actually written much later. book of the Bible
a city in the European part of Russia. city in Russia
a cartoon character created by Walt Disney. animated dog in various Disney productions
English statesman; during the War of the Roses he fought first for the house of York and secured the throne for Edward IV and then changed sides to fight for the house of Lancaster and secured the throne for Henry VI (1428-1471). jure uxoris 16th Earl of Warwick and suo jure 6th Earl of Salisbury
a state in New England; one of the original 13 colonies. state of the United States of America
a city of central Sri Lanka that was the last capital of the ancient kings of Ceylon; a resort and religious center. Capital city in Central Province, Sri Lanka
Macedonian general under Alexander the Great; with Seleucus he defeated Antigonus and Demetrius at the battle of Ipsus (circa 355-281 BC). Macedonian officer
a city of southwestern Missouri. city in Missouri, United States
the largest of the islands comprising Saint Christopher-Nevis. island in Saint Kitts and Nevis
influential German idealist philosopher (1724-1804). German philosopher
a steel arch bridge across New River at Fayetteville, West Virginia. steel arch bridge over New River Gorge near Fayetteville, West Virginia, USA
part of the Arctic Ocean to the northeast of Alaska. marginal sea of the Arctic Ocean
(Greek mythology) a mythical giant who was a thief and murderer; he would capture people and tie them to an iron bed, stretching them or hacking off their legs to make them fit; was killed by Theseus. mythical character
a lake in southeastern Germany on the northern side of the Swiss Alps; forms part of the Rhine River. lake in Germany, Switzerland and Austria
the capital and principal port of Tunisia. capital city of Tunisia
a city in southern England; administrative center of Hampshire. city in Hampshire, England
the independent state that the Tamil Tigers have fought for. aspirational state
a city in central Myanmar to the north of Rangoon. cultural city in Mandalay Region, Myanmar
(Greek mythology) the son of Zeus who slew Medusa (with the help of Athena and Hermes) and rescued Andromeda from a sea monster. legendary Greek hero and founder of Mycenae
highly original and much imitated Italian architect (1508-1580). Italian architect
the European mainland. continent of Europe, excluding European islands
the part of London situated within the ancient boundaries; the commercial and financial center of London. city and county within London; Roman settlement
the area around the eastern Mediterranean; from Turkey to northern Africa and eastward to Iran; the site of such ancient civilizations as Phoenicia and Babylon and Egypt and the birthplace of Judaism and Christianity and Islam; had continuous economic and political turmoil in the 20th century. geographical term that roughly encompasses Western Asia
United States physicist who discovered two belts of charged particles from the solar wind trapped by the Earth's magnetic field (born in 1914). American nuclear physicist
son of James I who was King of England and Scotland and Ireland; was deposed and executed by Oliver Cromwell (1600-1649). monarch of the three kingdoms of England, Scotland, and Ireland
an industrial city in northern France near the Belgian border; was the medieval capital of Flanders. commune in Nord, France
Canadian physiologist who discovered insulin with C. H. Best and who used it to treat diabetes(1891-1941). Canadian medical scientist and doctor
United States sociologist (1902-1979). American sociologist
Spanish composer and pianist (1876-1946). Spanish composer
a river in southeastern France; a tributary of the Rhone. river in France
a desert in southern Israel. desert and semidesert region of southern Israel
United States general and traitor in the American Revolution; in 1780 his plan to surrender West Point to the British was foiled (1741-1801). Continental and later British Army general during the American Revolutionary War
Finnish architect and designer of furniture (1898-1976). Finnish architect and designer
a terraced garden at Babylon watered by pumps from the Euphrates; construction attributed to Nebuchadnezzar around 600 BC. it is one of the seven wonders of ancient world
a mountain peak in the Andes in Peru (21,083 feet high). volcano in Peru
the capital of Moldova. capital of Moldova
United States poet noted for her mystical and unrhymed poems (1830-1886). American poet
a Marxist-Leninist terrorist group of Kurds trying to establish an independent Kurdish state in eastern Turkey. Kurdish nationalist and separatist armed organization
Italian anatomist who was the first to use a microscope to study anatomy and was among the first to recognize cells in animals (1628-1694). Italian physician
a town in northeastern Minnesota in the heart of the Mesabi Range. city in St. Louis County, Minnesota, United States
a town in southwestern Arizona on the Colorado River and the California border. city in Arizona, USA
(Greek mythology) the god who personified the north wind. group of Greek gods
United States poet and cartoonist remembered for his stories and poems for children (1932-1999). American poet, cartoonist, and children's writer
(Greek mythology) founder of Troy. Wikimedia disambiguation page
an ancient region of northwestern Europe including the Frisian Islands. coastal region on the North Sea in the Netherlands and Germany formerly a historic region with its own language
god of storms and wind; corresponds to Babylonian Adad. mesopotamian deity
a battle in the Thirty Years' War (1632); Swedes under Gustavus Adolphus defeated the Holy Roman Empire under Wallenstein; Gustavus Adolphus was killed. battle during the Thirty Years' War, 1632
French novelist (1901-1976). French novelist, art theorist and politician
a town in southwest Mississippi on the Mississippi River. county seat of Adams County, Mississippi, United States
United States educator who was an early campaigner for higher education for women (1787-1870). American women's rights activist
Mogul emperor of India during whose reign the finest monuments of Mogul architecture were built (including the Taj Mahal at Agra) (1592-1666). 5th Mughal Emperor
the Athenian siege of Syracuse (415-413 BC) was eventually won by Syracuse. Athenian military expedition to Sicily, which took place during the Peloponnesian War (415 BC to 413 BC).
a city in southern California; motion picture capital of the world; most populous city of California and second largest in the United States. county seat of Los Angeles County, California; second largest city in the United States by population
American seamstress said to have made the first American flag at the request of George Washington (1752-1836). person credited with making the American flag
secret aid to escaping slaves that was provided by abolitionists in the years before the American Civil War. network of secret routes and safe houses established in the United States during the early to mid-19th century, and used by African-American slaves to escape to freedom
a city in northern Spain on the Ebro River. municipality in Spain
Egyptian statesman who nationalized the Suez Canal (1918-1970). second president of Egypt
the natural satellite of the Earth. only natural satellite of Earth
English financier (1519-1579). English merchant and financier (c. 1519 뼰 1579)
the site of three famous battles among Greek city-states: in 418 BC and 362 BC and 207 BC. city in ancient Greece, currently a former municipality of Arcadia, Peloponnese, Greece
United States horticulturist who developed many new varieties of fruits and vegetables and flowers (1849-1926). American botanist, horticulturist and pioneer in agricultural science
the capital and largest city of Austria; located on the Danube in northeastern Austria; was the home of Beethoven and Brahms and Haydn and Mozart and Schubert and Strauss. capital and one of nine States of Austria
a city in eastern Iowa on the Mississippi River across from Moline and Rock Island. county seat of Scott County, Iowa, United States
Roman Emperor notorious for his monstrous vice and fantastic luxury (was said to have started a fire that destroyed much of Rome in 64) but the Roman Empire remained prosperous during his rule (37-68). Emperor of Ancient Rome, 5th and last of the Julio-Claudian dynasty
the most popular and feared Islamic extremist group in central Asia; advocates `pure' Islam and the creation of a worldwide Islamic state. Pan-Islamist and fundamentalist organization
a region of southern Italy (forming the instep of the Italian `boot'). region of Italy
United States physician who first described Huntington's chorea. discoverer of Huntington's disease
a mountain range extending the length of the Italian peninsula. mountain range stretching 1000 km from the north to the south of Italy along its east coast, traversing the entire peninsula, and forming the backbone of the country
a town in northwestern New Mexico. city in San Juan County, New Mexico
United States composer and rockabilly tenor popular in the 1950s (1936-1988). American singer-songwriter
a republic on the northwestern coast of Africa; recognized as independent by Portugal in 1974. country in Western Africa
the first Pope to assume a double name; he reigned for only 34 days (1912-1978). 263rd Pope of the Catholic Church
Apostle and companion of Saint Peter; assumed to be the author of the second Gospel. author of the Gospel of Mark and Christian saint; traditionally identified with John Mark
United States composer (born in France) whose music combines dissonance with complex rhythms and the use of electronic techniques (1883-1965). French composer
British colonial financier and statesman in South Africa; made a fortune in gold and diamond mining; helped colonize the territory now known as Zimbabwe; he endowed annual fellowships for British Commonwealth and United States students to study at Oxford University (1853-1902). British businessman, mining magnate and politician in South Africa
a mountainous province of central Sudan. geographic region of Sudan
a city in southwestern Virginia. independent city in Virginia, United States
United States educator who in 1865 (with Ezra Cornell) founded Cornell University and served as its first president (1832-1918). American politician
Peruvian writer (born in 1936). Peruvian writer, politician, journalist, and essayist
British nuclear physicist (born in Germany) honored for his contributions to quantum mechanics (1882-1970). physicist
a mythical Greek hero; a warrior who fought against Troy in the Iliad. person from Greek Mythology
any of family of powerful Jewish bankers in Europe. French painter
an Italian who was a Benedictine monk; was archbishop of Canterbury from 1093 to 1109; one of the founders of scholasticism; best known for his proof of the existence of God. Benedictine monk, philosopher, and prelate
New Zealand writer of detective stories (1899-1982). New Zealand writer
king of Prussia who became involved in a costly war with France (1744-1797). King of Prussia
a battle in 1800 in which the French under Napoleon Bonaparte won a great victory over the Austrians. battle
the capital of Switzerland; located in western Switzerland. capital of Switzerland
Roman general who commanded the fleet that defeated the forces of Antony and Cleopatra at Actium (63-12 BC). ancient Roman statesman and general
English lyric poet (1591-1674). 17th-century English poet and cleric
(Christianity) the adversary of Christ (or Christianity) mentioned in the New Testament; the Antichrist will rule the world until overthrown by the Second Coming of Christ. The prophesised opposition to Christ
English film actor (1909-1984). British actor
an ancient city in southeastern Iran; destroyed by an earthquake in 2003. city
42nd President of the United States (1946-). American lawyer, politician and 42nd President of the United States
French revolutionary leader (born in Switzerland) who was a leader in overthrowing the Girondists and was stabbed to death in his bath by Charlotte Corday (1743-1793). politician and journalist during the French Revolution
king of France from 1610 to 1643 who relied heavily on the advice of Cardinal Richelieu (1601-1643). King of France and Navarra 1610-1643
United States physicist who invented the iconoscope (1889-1982). Russian engineer
British physicist (born in New Zealand) who discovered the atomic nucleus and proposed a nuclear model of the atom (1871-1937). New Zealand-born British chemist and physicist
a city in central New York. county seat of Onondaga County, New York, United States
the Bodhisattva who is to appear as a Buddha 5000 years after the death of Gautama. future bodhisattva
a state in southeastern India on the Bay of Bengal (south of Andhra Pradesh); formerly Madras. Indian state
United States psychiatrist and son of Charles Menninger (1893-1990). American psychiatrist
a river rising in northeastern New Mexico and flowing eastward across the Texas panhandle to become a tributary of the Arkansas River in Oklahoma. river in Texas and Oklahoma
a town in west central Nebraska on the Platte River. city in Nebraska, United States
a port city in northeastern Sicily on the Strait of Messina. Italian comune in Sicily
a country scattered over Micronesia with a constitutional government in free association with the United States; achieved independence in 1986. country in Oceania
a small bright constellation in the polar region of the southern hemisphere near Circinus and Apus. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
(Old Testament) a patriarch (grandfather of Noah) who is said to have lived 969 years. Biblical figure
3rd President of the United States; chief drafter of the Declaration of Independence; made the Louisiana Purchase in 1803 and sent out the Lewis and Clark Expedition to explore it (1743-1826). 3rd President of the United States of America
Australian physiologist noted for his research on the conduction of impulses by nerve cells (1903-1997). Australian neurophysioloigst
a river in northeastern Kansas; flows eastward to become a tributary of the Missouri River. river in northeastern Kansas, United States
a large plateau that occupies more than 40% of the land area of Canada; it extends from the Great Lakes northward to the Arctic Ocean. geographic and geologic area of Canada
a town in northeastern France long noted for its lace industry. commune in Nord, France
Babylonian god of the earth; one of the supreme triad including Anu and Ea; earlier identified with En-lil. Mesopotamian god
the capital and chief port and largest city of Libya; in northwestern Libya on the Mediterranean Sea; founded by the Phoenicians in the 7th century BC. capital city of Libya
French writer (born in Belgium) best known for his detective novels featuring Inspector Maigret (1903-1989). Belgian writer
a trail that extends from Missouri to New Mexico; an important route for settlers moving west in the 19th century. Transportation route through central North America that connected Franklin, Missouri with Santa Fe, New Mexico.
(Greek mythology) the Muse of epic poetry. muse of epic poetry
United States composer of works noted for their use of the American vernacular (1893-1969). American composer
English painter; sister of Virginia Woolf; prominent member of the Bloomsbury Group (1879-1961). British artist
one of the British colonies that formed the United States. state of the United States of America
United States inventor of the mechanical cotton gin (1765-1825). American inventor
a battle during the second Punic War (207 BC); Hannibal's brother Hasdrubal was defeated by the Romans which ended Hannibal's hopes for success in Italy. pivotal battle in the Second Punic War between Rome and Carthage, fought in 207 BC near the Metauro River in present-day Italy
explorer and United States naval officer; led expeditions to explore Antarctica (1888-1957). Medal of Honor recipient and United States Navy officer
Japanese painter whose work influenced the impressionists (1760-1849). Japanese artist
German Roman Catholic theologian and mystic (1260-1327). German theologian
Mexican novelist (born in 1928). Mexican writer
(New Testament) disciple of Jesus; traditionally considered to be the author of the first Gospel. Christian evangelist and apostle
a national park in Utah including mountains and the Colorado River gorge and huge rock formations caused by erosion. national park in Grand County, Utah, United States
Malaysia's sparkling new capital. federal administrative centre of Malaysia
United States writer (born in 1917). American lawyer, novelist, historian, essayist
Austrian who became the Nazi official who administered the concentration camps where millions of Jews were murdered during World War II (1906-1962). German Nazi SS-Obersturmbannf맚櫻컍er
a peak in the San Juan mountains of Colorado (14,246 feet high). mountain in United States of America
a keel-shaped constellation in the southern hemisphere; contains the start Canopus. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
United States painter (born in England) of portraits and historical scenes (1783-1872). American artist
capital of the state of North Dakota; located in south central North Dakota overlooking the Missouri river. city in and state capital of North Dakota, United States; county seat of Burleigh County
United States writer best known for his novels (born in 1925). American novelist and essayist
a city in southeastern South Korea on the Korean Strait; the chief port and second largest city. second-largest city of South Korea
(New Testament) one of the three sages from the east who came bearing gifts for the infant Jesus. according to Christian tradition, a king of India and one of the three Magi that visited Jesus, who gave the gift of frankincense
a county of southern England on the English Channel. ceremonial county of England (use Q21694653 for administrative non-metropolitan county)
a river rising in northern Georgia and flowing southwest and south to join the Flint River at the Florida border where they form the Apalachicola River. river in the USA
a street in central London where the consulting rooms of many physicians and surgeons are located. street in Marylebone, central London
the largest known star. star in the northern constellation of Auriga
a tower in Toronto; 1815 feet tall for broadcasting widely. tower in Downtown Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Russian choreographer (1834-1905). Russian ballet dancer and choreographer, creator of a "Swan Lake"
the meridian passing through Greenwich; was internationally adopted as the earth's zero of longitude in 1884. meridian
the capital and largest city of Grenada. capital of Grenada
United States early feminist (born in Scotland) (1795-1852). American activist
(Norse mythology) a blind god; misled by Loki, he kills his brother Balder by throwing a shaft of mistletoe. Norse deity
United States actress noted for her performances in Broadway plays (1893-1974). actress
Russian actor and theater director who trained his actors to emphasize the psychological motivation of their roles (1863-1938). Russian and Soviet actor and theatre director
a province in central South Africa that was colonized by the Boers; named Free State in 1997. independent Boer sovereign republic in southern Africa between 1854뼰1902
capital of Micronesia. town in Micronesia
German writer (1830-1914). German writer
United States diplomat and jurist who negotiated peace treaties with Britain and served as the first chief justice of the United States Supreme Court (1745-1829). American politician, Patriot, diplomat, and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States
the fourth book of the Old Testament; contains a record of the number of Israelites who followed Moses out of Egypt. fourth book of the Bible
a college in New Hampshire. university and liberal arts college in Hanover, New Hampshire, United States
United States writer; brother of Stephen Vincent Benet (1886-1950). American writer
a landlocked republic in southwestern Asia; formerly an Asian soviet. republic in Western Asia and Eastern Europe
(Greek mythology) the Titan who stole fire from Olympus and gave it to mankind; Zeus punished him by chaining him to a rock where an eagle gnawed at his liver until Hercules rescued him. mythological figure, a Greek Titan
a vast prairie region extending from Alberta and Saskatchewan and Manitoba in Canada south through the west central United States into Texas; formerly inhabited by Native Americans. broad expanse of flat land west of the Mississippi River and east of the Rocky Mountains in the United States and Canada
a servile black character in a novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe. fictional character
French writer of moralistic maxims (1613-1680). French author of maxims and memoirs
a republic in Central America; achieved independence from Spain in 1821; an early center of Mayan culture. republic in Central America
port city and the capital of Seychelles. capital city of the Seychelles
a seaport on the Don River near the Sea of Azov in the European part of Russia. Russian city
a large city of central Poland. city in ?뮁塋? Voivodeship, Poland
French philosopher and mathematician; developed dualistic theory of mind and matter; introduced the use of coordinates to locate a point in two or three dimensions (1596-1650). French philosopher, mathematician, and scientist
(Arthurian legend) one of the knights of the Round Table. king of Dumnonia from Welsh folklore and Arthurian legend
a steel arch bridge in Sydney, Australia. bridge across Sydney Harbour in Australia
a group of islands in the western West Indies. island group to the west of the Antilles archipelago
a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Columba and Eridanus. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
German poet (born in Austria) whose imagery and mystic lyricism influenced 20th-century German literature (1875-1926). Austrian poet and writer
United States legislator who opposed the use of paper currency (1782-1858). Senator from Missouri
a city in south central New York near the border with Pennsylvania. city in  Broome County, New York, United States
French dramatist noted for his reinterpretations of Greek myths (1910-1987). French playwright
a city in southern Ghana. second largest city of Ghana
French chemist and biologist whose discovery that fermentation is caused by microorganisms resulted in the process of pasteurization (1822-1895). French chemist and microbiologist
king of Spain and Portugal and husband of Mary I; he supported the Counter Reformation and sent the Spanish Armada to invade England (1527-1598). King of Spain who became King of England by marriage to Queen Mary I
(Islam) a messianic leader who (according to popular Muslim belief) will appear before the end of the world and restore justice and religion. 12th and last Imam in Twelver Shia Islam
immediately below the A-horizon; contains deposits of organic matter leached from surface soils. soil layer whose physical characteristics differ from the layers above and beneath
a former town in Boeotia; site of a battle between the Greeks and Persians in 479 BC. ancient city, located in Greece in southeastern Boeotia
a steel manufacturing city in northern England famous for its cutlery industry. city in South Yorkshire, England
a British colony in the Caribbean to the northwest of Jamaica; an international banking center. British Overseas Territory in the Caribbean
(Old Testament) a youth who was taken into the court of Nebuchadnezzar and given divine protection when thrown into a den of lions (6th century BC). protagonist in the Book of Daniel of the Hebrew Bible
United States conductor (born in Japan in 1935). Japanese orchestra conductor
the second New Testament epistle traditionally attributed to Saint John the Apostle. book of the Bible
Hungarian violinist and composer (1831-1907). Hungarian musician
an Old Testament book telling the prophecies of Zephaniah which are concerned mainly with the approaching judgment by God upon the sinners of Judah. book of the Bible
an agricultural county of eastern England on the North Sea. ceremonial county in the east of England (use Q21269047 for administrative non-metropolitan county)
a small landlocked principality (constitutional monarchy) in central Europe located in the Alps between Austria and Switzerland. principality in western-central Europe
a naval battle in the Russo-Japanese War (1905); the Japanese fleet defeated the Russian fleet in the Korean Strait. major naval battle between Russia and Japan during the Russo-Japanese War
Roman general and dictator (138-78 BC). Ancient Roman general, dictator
a triangular area in southwestern Texas on the Mexican border; formed by a bend in the Rio Grande. geographic region in the western part of the state of Texas in the United States
a city in northwestern Turkey. city in Turkey
English writer (born in Ireland) (1713-1766). Irish/English writer
a town in western California on Monterey Bay; a tourist center. city in California, USA
Venezuelan master terrorist raised by a Marxist-Leninist father; trained and worked with many terrorist groups (born in 1949). Venezuelan-born international terror operative
English paleontologist (son of Louis Leakey and Mary Leakey) who continued the work of his parents; he was appointed director of a wildlife preserve in Kenya but resigned under political pressure (born in 1944). Kenyan paleoanthropologist, conservationist, and politician
United States singer and songwriter (born in 1942). American musician, songwriter and producer
an area of low mountains in northwestern Arkansas and southeastern Missouri and northeastern Oklahoma. highland region in central-southern United States
a river that rises in northeastern South Dakota and flows southward to join the Missouri River at Sioux City, Iowa. river in the United States of America
city in southeastern Netherlands noted for electrical industry. municipality in the Netherlands
(Greek mythology) the king who lead the Greeks against Troy in the Trojan War. figure from Greek mythology
a republic in southern South America on the western slopes of the Andes on the south Pacific coast. republic in South America
United States architect known for his steel framed skyscrapers and for coining the phrase `form follows function' (1856-1924). American architect
a mountainous region of eastern France drained by the Rhone and Saone and Isere rivers. former administrative region of France
a village in northeastern Virginia. unincorporated community in Virginia
battle in World War I (1916). battle of the Western Front, World War I
United States circus clown (1898-1979). American clown
a Turkish river flowing south southwest into the Mediterranean. river in Turkey
Italian nationalist whose writings spurred the movement for a unified and independent Italy (1805-1872). Italian patriot, politician and philosopher
38th President of the United States; appointed vice president and succeeded Nixon when Nixon resigned (1913-). American politician, 38th President of the United States (in office from 1974 to 1977)
a national park in Wyoming featuring mountains. United States National Park in northwestern Wyoming
a Hebrew minor prophet of the 7th century BC. minor prophet
Roman goddess of night; daughter of Erebus; counterpart of Greek Nyx. Greek goddess of the night
a New Testament book containing the epistle from Saint Paul to the Galatians. book of the Bible
a town in north central Oklahoma. city in and county seat of Garfield County, Oklahoma, United States
French painter of Italian landscapes (1796-1875). French landscape and portrait painter and printmaker in etching
a town in northwest South Carolina in the Piedmont. county seat of Greenville County, South Carolina, United States
(Norse mythology) trickster; god of discord and mischief; contrived death of Balder and was overcome by Thor. Norse god
United States humorist and cartoonist who published collections of essays and stories (1894-1961). American cartoonist, author, journalist, playwright
Russian writer of stories and novels and plays (1818-1883). Russian writer
French writer who generalized surrealism to literature (1897-1982). French poet, novelist and editor
French inventor who (with his brother Jacques Etienne Montgolfier) pioneered hot-air ballooning (1740-1810). French brothers inventor duo, inventors of a hot air balloon or globe a뫜뜾ostatique, 1783
(Greek legend) a king in ancient Greece who offended Zeus and whose punishment was to roll a huge boulder to the top of a steep hill; each time the boulder neared the top it rolled back down and Sisyphus was forced to start again. king of Ephyra in Greek mythology
a city in north central Ukraine; site of a major disaster at a nuclear power plant (26 April 1986). site of a famous nuclear disaster during the communist era, former city
a large group of islands in the south Pacific including Melanesia and Micronesia and Polynesia (and sometimes Australasia and the Malay Archipelago). geographic region comprising Australasia, Melanesia, Micronesia and Polynesia
Indian religious leader and founder of the Yogacara school of Buddhism in India (4th century). Buddhist monk and Yogacara teacher
industrial city in southwestern Zimbabwe. City in Zimbabwe
British explorer of the Arctic and Antarctic; located the north magnetic pole in 1831; discovered the Ross Sea in Antarctica; nephew of Sir John Ross (1800-1862). British explorer and naval officer
port city in northern Brazil in the Amazon delta; main port and commercial center for the Amazon River basin. municipality in Brazil, the capital and largest municipality of state of Par뭼 in the country's north
from 345 million to 280 million years ago. fifth Period and System of the Paleozoic Era and Erathem
English astronomer (born in Germany) who discovered infrared light and who catalogued the stars and discovered the planet Uranus (1738-1822). German-born British astronomer, technical expert, and composer
United States writer noted for his works portraying the life of drug addicts (1914-1997). American novelist, short story writer, essayist, painter, and spoken word performer
(Greek mythology) a prophetic god who served Poseidon; was capable of changing his shape at will. Greek mythology
a New Testament book containing Saint Paul's first epistle to the Thessalonians. book of the Bible
Spanish singer noted for his ballads and love songs (born in 1943). Spanish singer-songwriter
United States electrical engineer who made numerous automotive improvements (including the electric starter) (1876-1958). American inventor, engineer, businessman, and the holder of 140 patents
a former large county in northern England; in 1974 it was divided into three smaller counties. historic county of Northern England
a university in Chicago, Illinois. private research university in Chicago, Illinois, United States
United States author of surrealistic allegorical plays (born in 1943). American playwright and actor
an industrial center and the nominal capital of the Netherlands; center of the diamond-cutting industry; seat of an important stock exchange; known for its canals and art museum. capital and largest city of the Netherlands
United States writer (born in Poland) of Yiddish stories and novels (1904-1991). Polish-American author
German chemist who pioneered analytical chemistry and discovered three new elements (1743-1817). German chemist
joint monarchs of Spain; Ferdinand V and Isabella I. title for Queen Isabella I of Castile and King Ferdinand II of Aragon
a town in western Tennessee. city in Madison County, Tennessee, United States
United States composer (born in Austria) and pianist noted for his interpretations of the works of Mozart and Beethoven and Schubert (1882-1951). Austrian pianist
(Old Testament) Babylonian general and son of Nebuchadnezzar II; according to the Old Testament he was warned of his doom by divine handwriting on the wall that was interpreted by Daniel (6th century BC). Biblical king of Babylonia in the Book of Daniel
largest city in Illinois; a bustling Great Lakes port that extends 26 miles along the southwestern shoreline of Lake Michigan. city and county seat of Cook County, Illinois, United States
United States pop singer and sex symbol during the 1980s (born in 1958). American singer, songwriter, and actress
either of two battles during the American Civil War (1861 and 1862); Confederate forces defeated the Federal army in both battles. first major land battle of the American Civil War
23rd President of the United States (1833-1901). American politician, 23rd President of the United States (in office from 1889 to 1893)
English dancer who danced with Rudolf Nureyev (born in 1919). English ballerina
United States writer and Afro-American who wrote a fictionalized account of tracing his family roots back to Africa (1921-1992). American biographer, screenwriter, and novelist
a landlocked republic in central Europe; separated from the Czech Republic in 1993. republic in Central Europe
an inland waterway 1000 miles long in eastern China; extends from Tianjin in the north to Hangzhou in the south. longest canal or artificial river in the world
English actor and dramatist and critic and director noted for his productions of Shakespearean plays (1877-1946). British actor and playwright
English romantic poet notorious for his rebellious and unconventional lifestyle (1788-1824). English poet and a leading figure in the Romantic movement
a computerized data system to provide brokers with price quotations for securities traded over the counter. American stock exchange
French chemist and physicist who first isolated boron and who formulated the law describing the behavior of gases under constant pressure (1778-1850). French chemist and physicist
English poet and literary critic (1822-1888). English poet and cultural critic who worked as an inspector of schools
Norwegian explorer who was the first to traverse the Northwest Passage and in 1911 the first to reach the South Pole (1872-1928). Norwegian polar researcher, who was the first to reach the South Pole
Austrian statesman (1773-1859). Austrian diplomat
a fashionable street in London noted for its many private clubs. street in London, England
English novelist (1911-1993). British novelist, poet, playwright and Nobel Prize for Literature laureate
middle part of the Stone Age beginning about 15,000 years ago. prehistoric period, second part of the Stone Age
United States playwright (1913-1973). American author
a widely used search engine that uses text-matching techniques to find web pages that are important and relevant to a user's search. American multinational Internet and technology corporation
the hero of William Shakespeare's tragedy who hoped to avenge the murder of his father. tragedy by William Shakespeare
American Revolutionary leader and signer of the Declaration of Independence and the Articles of Confederation and the United States Constitution (1721-1793). early American lawyer and politician, as well as a Founding Father of the United States
French architect (1825-1898). French architect
German arms manufacturer and son of Friedrich Krupp; his firm provided ordnance for German armies from the 1840s through World War II (1812-1887). German family dynasty
a general of Alexander the Great and king of Macedonia; lost one eye; killed in a battle at Ipsus (382-301 BC). Nobleman, general, satrap and king
a Roman who was an early Christian philosopher and statesman who was executed for treason; Boethius had a decisive influence on medieval logic (circa 480-524). philosopher of the early 6th century
a group of caverns in southeastern New Mexico noted for their stalactites and stalagmites. United States National Park in the Guadalupe Mountains in southeastern New Mexico
Greek philosopher who was a Stoic (circa 50-130). philosopher from Ancient Greece
United States film actor (1905-1982). American actor
United States lithographer who (with his partner Nathaniel Currier) produced thousands of prints signed `Currier & Ives' (1824-1895). American artist
wife who poisoned Claudius after her son Nero was declared heir and who was then put to death by Nero. Roman Empress and mother of Nero
(Greek mythology) a great war fought between Greece and Troy; the Greeks sailed to Troy to recover Helen of Troy, the beautiful wife of Menelaus who had been abducted by Paris; after ten years the Greeks (via the Trojan Horse) achieved final victory and burned Troy to the ground. mythological war
Englishman and Egyptologist who in 1922 discovered and excavated the tomb of Tutankhamen (1873-1939). British egyptologist
general who commanded a Carthaginian army in Spain; joined his brother Hannibal in Italy and was killed by the Romans at the battle of Metaurus River (died 207 BC). Carthaginian general in the Second Punic War, son of Hamilcar Barca, brother of Hannibal (died 207 BC)
a city of southern Poland whose church contains the statue of the black Madonna which attracts many pilgrims. City with powiat rights of Poland
a town in central Arizona. county seat of Yavapai County, Arizona, United States
islands of central and South Pacific (Indonesia and Melanesia and Micronesia and Polynesia). regions where Austronesian languages are spoken
a mountain peak in southeastern Alaska that is part of the Coast Range (14,950 feet high). mountain
a city in central Spain on the Tagus river; famous for steel and swords since the first century. municipality in central Spain
son of Henry V who as an infant succeeded his father and was King of England from 1422 to 1461; he was taken prisoner in 1460 and Edward IV was proclaimed king; he was rescued and regained the throne in 1470 but was recaptured and murdered in the Tower of London (1421-1471). King of England
United States educator and president of Harvard University (1856-1943). U.S. educator and legal scholar
a sea in northern Europe; stronghold of the Russian navy. sea in Northern Europe bounded by the Scandinavian Peninsula, the mainland of Europe, and the Danish islands
(Judaism) a chant of praise (Psalms 113 through 118) used at Passover and Shabuoth and Sukkoth and Hanukkah and Rosh Hodesh. Jewish prayer of thanksgiving
an area between Israel and Jordan on the west bank of the Jordan river; populated largely by Palestinians. part of the Palestinian territories near the Mediterranean coast of Western Asia
a state in southeastern United States between the Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico; one of the Confederate states during the American Civil War. state of the United States of America
the first of two Old Testament books telling the histories of the kings of Judah and Israel. Books of the Bible
a Brazilian river; tributary of the Amazon River. river in South America
a republic in western Europe; the largest country wholly in Europe. republic with mainland in Europe and numerous oversea territories
United States chemist who discovered deuterium (1893-1981). American physical chemist
a port city in northwestern Venezuela; a major oil center. city in Venezuela
a port city and commercial center in northwestern Lebanon on the Mediterranean Sea. city in northern Lebanon
United States poet (1917-1977). poet
a town in western Kentucky on the Ohio River. city in Kentucky, USA
a port and largest city in Louisiana; located in southeastern Louisiana near the mouth of the Mississippi river; a major center for offshore drilling for oil in the Gulf of Mexico; jazz originated here among black musicians in the late 19th century; Mardi Gras is celebrated here each year. port city in Orleans Parish, Louisiana, United States
United States economist (1918-2002). American economist
king of France from 1589 to 1610; although he was leader of the Huguenot armies, when he succeeded the Catholic Henry III and founded the Bourbon dynasty in 1589 he established religious freedom in France. first French monarch of the House of Bourbon
the southeastern region of the United States. eastern portion of the Southern United States
South African prelate and leader of the antiapartheid struggle (born in 1931). South African churchman, politician, archbishop, Nobel Prize winner
the king of Castile and Aragon who ruled jointly with his wife Isabella; his marriage to Isabella I in 1469 marked the beginning of the modern state of Spain and their capture of Granada from the Moors in 1492 united Spain as one country; they instituted the Spanish Inquisition in 1478 and supported the expedition of Christopher Columbus in 1492 (1452-1516). King of Aragon, Sicily, Naples, and Valencia
French writer of novels and dramas for the theater of the absurd (1910-1986). French novelist, playwright, poet and political activist
a town in southeast Missouri. city in Missouri, USA
United States psychologist and a leading proponent of behaviorism (1904-1990). American behaviorist
United States physicist who discovered antimatter in the form of an antielectron that is called the positron (1905-1991). American scientist
the day in 2001 when Arab suicide bombers hijacked United States airliners and used them as bombs. attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001
United States civil rights leader who refused to give up her seat on a bus to a white man in Montgomery (Alabama) and so triggered the national Civil Rights movement (born in 1913). African-American civil rights activist
disciple of Jesus and leader of the Apostles; regarded by Catholics as the vicar of Christ on earth and first Pope. apostle and first pope
(New Testament) disciple of Jesus; brother of John; author of the Epistle of James in the New Testament. major religious figure in Christian tradition and one of the Twelve Apostles
a university in Austin, Texas. public research university in Austin, Texas, United States
an oratorio composed by Handel in 1742. oratorio by George Frideric Handel
a geographical area in central and eastern Europe; broken into separate countries at the end of World War I. constitutional monarchic union from 1867 to October 1918
United States geneticist who (with Crick in 1953) helped discover the helical structure of DNA (born in 1928). American molecular biologist, geneticist, and zoologist
United States writer (born in 1925). American writer
an autonomous area in northeastern Greece that is the site of several Greek Orthodox monasteries founded in the tenth century. peninsula in Macedonia, Greece
the ancient Greek known as the father of history; his accounts of the wars between the Greeks and Persians are the first known examples of historical writing (485-425 BC). ancient Greek historian, often considered as the first historian
the mountain range in Caucasia between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea that forms part of the traditional border between Europe and Asia. region in Eurasia bordered on the south by Iran, on the southwest by Turkey, on the west by the Black Sea, on the east by the Caspian Sea, and on the north by Russia
French chemist who formulated Le Chatelier's principle (1850-1936). French chemist
a desert area in western Australia. desert in Western Australia
United States illustrator remembered for his creation of the `Gibson girl' (1867-1944). American artist and illustrator
a town on Lake Superior on the Upper Peninsula in northwest Michigan. city in the U.S. state of Michigan and County seat of Marquette County, Michigan
a landlocked republic in central Africa; formerly a German colony. country in Africa
the highest mountain peak in the Alps; on the border between France and Italy to the south of Geneva (15,781 feet high). highest mountain in the Alps (15,780.9 feet)
United States astronomer and aviation pioneer who invented the bolometer and contributed to the design of early aircraft (1834-1906). American physicist and pioneer of aviation
Spanish guitarist who made classical guitar a concert instrument (1893-1987). Spanish classical guitarist
Swiss physician who introduced treatments of particular illnesses based on his observation and experience; he saw illness as having an external cause (rather than an imbalance of humors) and replaced traditional remedies with chemical remedies (1493-1541). Swiss physician and alchemist
the western seaboard of the United States from Washington to southern California. term for the westernmost coastal states of the United States
a minor Hebrew prophet (8th century BC). biblical character
Russian author remembered for two great novels (1828-1910). Russian writer
Swedish chemist and physicist noted for his theory of chemical dissociation (1859-1927). Swedish chemist
a town in northwest Illinois on the Mississippi River. city in Illinois
(Greek mythology) one of a people that the ancient Greeks believed lived in a warm and sunny land north of the source of the north wind. area north of Thrace in Greek mythology
an African river; flows into the South Atlantic. river in West Africa
(Norse mythology) god of earth's fertility and peace and prosperity; son of Njorth and brother of Freya; originally of the Vanir; later with the Aesir. Norse deity
the Canadian province in the Maritimes consisting of the Nova Scotia peninsula and Cape Breton Island; French settlers who called the area Acadia were exiled to Louisiana by the British in the 1750s and their descendants are know as Cajuns. province of Canada
United States classical archaeologist (born in Canada) noted for leading the excavation of the Athenian agora (1906-2000). Canadian-born American classical archaeologist
a town in central Algeria. municipality of Algeria
English comic actor (1925-1980). British film actor, comedian and singer
United States actress (born in England) who made many stage appearances, often with her husband Hume Cronyn (1909-1994). British-American actress
king of Castile and Leon who achieved control of the Moorish kings of Saragossa and Seville and Toledo (1016-1065). King of Leon and Count of Castile
Celtic deity who was the father of Manawydan; corresponds to Irish Lir. figure in Welsh mythology
United States religious leader of the Mormon Church after the assassination of Joseph Smith; he led the Mormon exodus from Illinois to Salt Lake City, Utah (1801-1877). Latter Day Saint movement leader
the United States and its allies defeated Iraq in a ground war that lasted 100 hours (1991). 1990뼰1991 war between Iraq and Coalition Forces
a large national park in Alaska featuring the Great Mendenhall Glacier. national park of the United States
Danish philologist whose work on Old Norse pioneered in the field of comparative linguistics (1787-1832). Danish philologist
clock in the clock tower of the Houses of Parliament, London. bell within the clock tower  at the Palace of Westminster in London, England
German mathematical physicist noted for stating the uncertainty principle (1901-1976). German theoretical physicist
a city in southern Ohio on the Ohio river. city in Ohio, United States; county seat of Hamilton County
a republic on the southeastern coast of Africa on the Mozambique Channel; became independent from Portugal in 1975. country in Africa
a city in southern Ukraine on the Black Sea. city in the southwestern region of the Crimean Peninsula
Russian poet (born in 1933). Soviet poet
a city in western Georgia on the Chattahoochee River; industrial center. city in Muscogee County, Georgia, United States
the largest inland sea; between Europe and Africa and Asia. sea connected to the Atlantic Ocean surrounded by the Mediterranean region
a port city in southwestern Brazil on an offshore island near Sao Paulo. municipality in the S?o Paulo state of Brazil
United States musician (born in Japan) who married John Lennon and collaborated with him on recordings (born in 1933). Japanese artist, author, and peace activist
a region in southwestern France. former administrative region in France
(Greek mythology) wife of Nereus and mother of the Nereids. Oceanid of Greek mythology
a group of over 100 islands in the southern Atlantic off the coast of Argentina; a British Crown Colony. archipelago in the South Atlantic Ocean
elected vice president and became the 10th President of the United States when Harrison died (1790-1862). American politician, 10th President of the United States (in office from 1841 to 1845)
Irish physicist who (with Sir John Cockcroft in 1931) first split an atom (1903-1995). Irish physicist and Nobel laureate
a Hebrew shepherd and minor prophet. Hebrew prophet
capital of the Canadian province of British Columbia on Vancouver Island. capital city of province of British Columbia, Canada
a battle in Montana near the Little Bighorn River between United States cavalry under Custer and several groups of Native Americans (1876); Custer was pursuing Sioux led by Sitting Bull; Custer underestimated the size of the Sioux forces (which were supported by Cheyenne warriors) and was killed along with all his command. 1876 battle of the Great Sioux War
a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Centaurus. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
a town in northwestern Idaho. city in Nez Perce County, Idaho, USA
a constitutional monarchy in southeastern Asia on Borneo and the Malay Peninsula; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1957. federal constitutional monarchy in Southeast Asia
British composer of choral and orchestral works including two symphonies as well as songs and chamber music and music for brass band (1857-1934). English composer
French lexicographer (1801-1881). French lexicographer and philosopher
German chemist (1818-1892). German chemist
a major avenue in Paris famous for elegant shops and cafes. avenue in Paris, France
an Asian peninsula (off Manchuria) separating the Yellow Sea and the Sea of Japan; the Korean name is Dae-Han-Min-Gook or Han-Gook. peninsula in East Asia
a region of Malaysia in northeastern Borneo. member state of Malaysia
a river in eastern France; rises in Lorraine and flows south to become the chief tributary of the Rhone. river of France
a port on the island of Saint Lucia; capital and largest city of Saint Lucia. capital of Saint Lucia
an ultramodern city in southeastern Brazil; the largest city in South America. city in S?o Paulo federated state, Brazil
capital of the state of Vermont; located in north central Vermont. county seat in Washington County, Vermont, USA, Vermont federated state capital city
United States writer of children's books (1904-1991). American children's writer and illustrator
Swiss physicist who contributed to hydrodynamics and mathematical physics (1700-1782). Swiss mathematician
South African statesman who instituted the policy of apartheid (1901-1966). Prime Minister of South Africa from 1958 until his assassination in 1966
Prussian general and military theorist who proposed a doctrine of total war and war as an extension of diplomacy (1780-1831). German-Prussian soldier and military theorist
a United States naval officer remembered for his victory at Manila Bay in the Spanish-American War. United States Navy admiral
the largest of the Volcano Islands of Japan. island of the Japanese Volcano Islands chain south of the Ogasawara Islands, site of the 1945 Battle of Iwo Jima
pope who maintained neutrality during World War II and was later criticized for not aiding the Jews who were persecuted by Hitler (1876-1958). 260th Pope of the Catholic Church
a great waterfall on the border between Brazil and Paraguay. waterfall
an ancient city of Egypt on the Nile (south of Cairo). ancient capital of Aneb-Hetch, Egypt
Italian cardinal and theologian (1542-1621). Catholic cardinal, saint, and Doctor of the Church
czar of Russia (1551-1605). Russian Tsar
a university in Ann Arbor, Michigan. public research university in Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States
German mathematician (1882-1935). German mathematician
a river that rises in northern Colorado and flows northward into Wyoming and then eastward and southeastward through Nebraska where it joins the South Platte to form the Platte River. major tributary of the Platte River
United States anarchist (born in Italy) who with Nicola Sacco was convicted of murder and in spite of world-wide protest was executed (1888-1927). Italian American anarchist duo executed by Massachusetts
the part of Russia that is part of Europe. part of Russia in Europe
Englishman and romantic poet (1795-1821). English Romantic poet
United States film actress (born in Canada) who starred in silent films (1893-1979). Canadian-American actress
an Italian adventurer who wrote vivid accounts of his sexual encounters (1725-1798). Venecian adventurer and writer
a lake in northwestern Russia; drains through the Volkhov River into Lake Ladoga. lake in Novgorod Oblast, Russia
Soviet cosmonaut who in 1961 was the first person to travel in space (1934-1968). Soviet pilot and cosmonaut, first human in space
(Greek mythology) a Trojan boy who was so beautiful that Zeus carried him away to serve as cupbearer to the gods. mythological figure
a town in southwestern New Mexico. town in Grant County, New Mexico, USA
pope who was a patron of the arts and who denounced the cruelty to the indigenous peoples of South America (1675-1758). pope of catholic church 1740뼰1758
an Apocryphal book consisting of text added to the Book of Daniel. chapter 14 of the Book of Daniel in the Septuagint (but not in the Hebrew뼰깺凉촵amaic); has three parts: the first, where Daniel debunks the idol Bel; the second, where Daniel kills a dragon; the third, a duplicate narrative of Daniel in the Lions' Den
United States prizefighter who won the world middleweight championship five times and the world welterweight championship once (1921-1989). American boxer
a river that rises in western New Mexico and flows westward through southern Arizona to become a tributary of the Colorado River. river in the United States of America
United States comedian; one of four brothers who made motion pictures together (1893-1964). American author and tennis player
a town in south central France where is 1311-1313 the Roman Catholic Church held one of its councils. commune in Is릾렧e, France
the capital of Bahrain; located at the northern end of Bahrain Island. capital of Bahrain
a cluster of seven stars in Ursa Minor; at the end of the dipper's handle is Polaris. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere, containing the northern celestial pole
English philologist (1835-1912). British etymologist
a university in New Jersey. private Ivy League research university in Princeton, New Jersey, United States
a large waterfall on the border between Argentina and Brazil. town in the province of Matabeleland North, Zimbabwe
author of the first novel by an African American that was published in the United States (1808-1870). African-American novelist
(Roman Catholic Church) an Italian and the Roman Catholic monk who founded the Franciscan order of friars (1181-1226). Catholic saint and founder of the Franciscan Order
(Greek mythology) god of wine and fertility and drama; the Greek name of Bacchus. Greek god of winemaking and wine
Roman poet noted for epigrams (first century BC). Latin poet from Hispania
a sea between Europe and Asia; a popular resort area of eastern Europeans. sea between Europe and Asia
a revolutionary socialist anthem. left-wing anthem
New Zealand runner who in 1975 became the first person to run a mile in less that 3 minutes and 50 seconds (born in 1952). New Zealand distance runner
United States labor organizer who ran for President as a socialist (1855-1926). American labor and political leader
a mountain range in southern New Mexico and western Texas; the southern extension of the Sacramento Mountains. mountain range in the US states of Texas and New Mexico
United States comic actor in silent films; he used physical danger as a source of comedy (1893-1971). American film actor and producer
a shallow body of salt water in northwestern Utah. salt lake in Utah, United States
a battle in the Seven Years' War (1759) in which the English forces and their allies defeated the French. battle
American architect (1759-1828). British architect and activist
King of England who was crowned at the age of 13 on the death of his father Edward IV but was immediately confined to the Tower of London where he and his younger brother were murdered (1470-1483). king of England
United States film actress who made several films with Clark Gable (1911-1937). American film actress
(Arthurian legend) the magician who acted as King Arthur's advisor. legendary figure
English economist and conservationist (1914-1981). British economist; life peer
a conspicuous constellation in the northern hemisphere; between Auriga and Cassiopeia and crossed by the Milky Way. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
United States politician who as Secretary of State in 1867 arranged for the purchase of Alaska from Russia (known at the time as Seward's Folly) (1801-1872). American lawyer and politician
English reformer who published attacks on George III and supported the rights of the American colonists (1727-1797). English journalist and politician
an island in the eastern Caribbean in the Windward Islands; administered as an overseas region of France. island in the Lesser Antilles, overseas region of France
United States sculptor (1887-1966). American artist
the holy city of Shiite Muslims; located in northeastern Iran. Capital city of Razavi Khorasan province, and second largest city in Iran
French otologist who first described a form of vertigo now known as Meniere's disease and identified the semicircular canals as the site of the lesion (1799-1862). French physician
English phonetician (1881-1967). British phonetician
the capital and largest city of Fiji (on Viti Levu island). capital city of Fiji
an atoll in the Hawaiian Islands some 1300 miles to the northwest of Honolulu; site of an important United States naval base. atoll in the North Pacific Ocean and territory of the United States
ancient king of Pontus who expanded his kingdom by defeating the Romans but was later driven out by Pompey (132-63 BC). Ruler of the Bosporos Kingdom
United States engineer and inventor of the gyrocompass (1860-1930). American mechanical engineer
king of Wessex and Kent and elder brother of Alfred; Alfred joined Ethelred's battle against the invading Danes and succeeded him on his death (died in 871). King of Wessex
British sculptor whose works are monumental organic forms (1898-1986). English artist
son-in-law of Augustus who became a suspicious tyrannical Emperor of Rome after a brilliant military career (42 BC to AD 37). 2nd Emperor of Ancient Rome, member of the Julio-Claudian dynasty
a residential suburb of Phoenix. census designated place in Arizona
city in western Colombia; important coffee center. capital of the Colombian department of Antioquia
son of Henry VII and King of England from 1509 to 1547; his divorce from Catherine of Aragon resulted in his break with the Catholic Church in 1534 and his excommunication 1538, leading to the start of the Reformation in England (1491-1547). King of England from 1509 until 1547
Greek philosopher who taught that all matter is composed of particles of fire and water and air and earth (fifth century BC). ancient Greek philosopher
friend of Damon; Phintias (according to legend) was condemned to death by Dionysius the Elder and asked a respite to put his affairs in order; Damon pledged his life for the return of his friend; when Phintias returned in time the tyrant released them both (4th century BC). ancient attic Greek vase-painter and potter of red-figure style, part of the Pioneer Group
a city of north central North Carolina. city in North Carolina, United States of America
King of England who was a son of Edgar; he was challenged for the throne by supporters of his half-brother Ethelred II who eventually murdered him (963-978). King of the English
an island resort in the Pacific off the southwestern coast of California. island in the United States of America
United States poet; brother of William Rose Benet (1898-1943). poet, short story writer, novelist
Italian sculptor (1500-1571). Florentine sculptor and goldsmith
a battle in 1859 in which the French and Sardinian forces under Napoleon III defeated the Austrians under Francis Joseph I. battle
United States clarinetist who in 1934 formed a big band (including black as well as white musicians) and introduced a kind of jazz known as swing (1909-1986). American jazz musician
German musician who developed a widely used system for teaching music to children (1895-1982). German composer
a city in western Morocco; tourist center. city in Morocco
United States psychiatrist and son of Charles Menninger (1899-1966). American psychiatrist
a city of southwestern Latvia on the Baltic Sea. city in Latvia
an arm of the Pacific between China and Japan. sea between Korea, Japan, and Russia
Indian nun and missionary in the Roman Catholic Church (born of Albanian parents in what is now Macedonia); dedicated to helping the poor in India (1910-1997). Roman Catholic saint of Albanian origin
Scottish geneticist (son of John Haldane) who contributed to the development of population genetics; a popularizer of science and a Marxist (1892-1964). Geneticist and evolutionary biologist
United States film maker born in the United States but an Irish citizen after 1964 (1906-1987). American film director, screenwriter and actor
an island in the Bismarck Archipelago; part of Papua New Guinea. island of the Bismarck Archipelago in the Pacific Ocean
United States baseball manager (1890-1975). American baseball player and coach
a Muslim republic that occupies the heartland of ancient south Asian civilization in the Indus River valley; formerly part of India; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1947. republic in Asia
beautiful and charismatic queen of Egypt; mistress of Julius Caesar and later of Mark Antony; killed herself to avoid capture by Octavian (69-30 BC). last active pharaoh of Ptolemaic Egypt
an archipelago of about 70 islands in the North Atlantic and North Sea off the northeastern coast of Scotland. archipelago and council area in northern Scotland
one of four collections of sacred texts. Indian text, the oldest layer of the Vedas
(Greek mythology) a beautiful princess loved by Cupid who visited her at night and told her she must not try to see him; became the personification of the soul. Apuleius from the Latin Metamorphoses
a town in eastern Oklahoma on the Arkansas River. city in Oklahoma, USA
English poet best known for his elegy written in a country churchyard (1716-1771). English poet and historian
god of blame and mockery. the personification of satire and mockery in Greek mythology
an Australian state in southeastern Australia. state of Australia
the First Duke of Marlborough and Prince Eugene of Savoy defeated the French in 1704 during the War of the Spanish Succession. major battle of the War of the Spanish Succession
German composer of six operas and other incidental music (1854-1921). German composer
a mountain range in northern Africa between the Mediterranean and the Sahara Desert; extends from southwestern Morocco to northern Tunisia. mountain range across the northwestern stretch of Africa
the older of the two Grimm brothers remembered best for their fairy stories; also author of Grimm's law describing consonant changes in Germanic languages (1785-1863). German philologist, linguist, jurist and mythologist
a town in west central Texas. county seat of Midland County, Texas, United States
United States neoclassical composer (1894-1976). American composer, music theorist and professor of music
an ancient port city in southwestern Spain. city in Andalusia, Spain
United States economist who wrote about conspicuous consumption (1857-1929). American academic
the capital and largest city of Finland; located in southern Finland; a major port and commercial and cultural center. capital of Finland, and city in Uusimaa, Finland
a mountainous republic in central Europe; formerly part of the Habsburg monarchy and Yugoslavia; achieved independence in 1991. republic in Central Europe
a lake in northern Idaho. city in Idaho, United States
the collective name for the Canadian provinces of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island. geographical region of Canada
Roman historian whose history of Rome filled 142 volumes (of which only 35 survive) including the earliest history of the war with Hannibal (59 BC to AD 17). Roman historian
United States writer (born in England) remembered for her novels for children (1849-1924). English-American childrens' playwright and author
the valley of the Loire River where many French wines originated. French World Heritage Site
Patriarch of Constantinople and saint of the Greek Orthodox Church; was condemned by the Fourth Council of Constantinople in 869 but was reinstated by a later pope. Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople
English philosopher (1873-1958). British philosopher
a suburb of Manila in southwestern Luzon. city of the Philippines in Metro Manila
United States film actress (born in England) who was a childhood star; as an adult she often co-starred with Richard Burton (born in 1932). British-American actress
Indian sitar player who popularized classical Indian music in the West (born in 1920). Indian musician and sitar player
a city in southern Quebec province on the Saint Lawrence River; the largest city in Quebec and 2nd largest in Canada; the 2nd largest French-speaking city in the world. city in Quebec, Canada
a town in northwestern New Mexico near the Arizona border. city in McKinley County, New Mexico, United States
English conductor (1869-1944). English conductor
United States educator who established the first free school in the United States for the hearing impaired (1787-1851). American educator for the deaf
daughter of Nehru who served as prime minister of India from 1966 to 1977 (1917-1984). Indian Prime Minister and Politician
British general and statesman; he defeated Napoleon at Waterloo; subsequently served as Prime Minister (1769-1852). British soldier and statesman
United States linguist who adopted a behavioristic approach to linguistics (1887-1949). American linguist
English explorer who with Sir Richard Burton was the first European to explore Lake Tanganyika; he also discovered Lake Victoria and named it (1827-1864). British military officer and explorer
United States writer of detective thrillers featuring the character of Philip Marlowe (1888-1959). American novelist and screenwriter
a city in southern Turkey on the Seyhan River. city in southern Turkey
city in east central Ukraine on the Dnieper River; center of metallurgical industry. city in Dnipropetrovsk Oblast, Ukraine
battle in which the ruler of Afghanistan defeated the Mahrattas in 1761. A decisive battle of Indian History
Buddhist worthy of nirvana who postpones it to help others. in Buddhism, a being who has developed a  spontaneous wish and a compassionate mind to attain Buddhahood for the benefit of all sentient beings
(Norse mythology) god of war and strife and son of Odin; identified with Anglo-Saxon Tiu. Norse deity
a faint constellation in the polar region of the southern hemisphere and containing part of the Large Magellanic Cloud. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
granddaughter of Augustus and mother of Caligula and Agrippina the Younger (14 BC - AD 33). prominent Roman woman of the first century CE
a region of eastern England that was formerly a kingdom. region of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
English novelist; one of three Bronte sisters (1818-1848). English novelist and poet
Italian pope from 1417 to 1431 whose election as pope ended the Great Schism (1368-1431). pope
a desert of northern Arabia occupying western Iraq, southern Syria, eastern Jordan, and northern Saudi Arabia. desert
a widely used search engine accepting plain English questions or phrases or terms. search engine
an ancient region of west central Italy (southeast of Rome) on the Tyrrhenian Sea. administrative region of Italy
a chief of the Sioux; took up arms against settlers in the northern Great Plains and against United States Army troops; he was present at the Battle of Little Bighorn (1876) when the Sioux massacred General Custer's troops (1831-1890). Hunkpapa Lakota medicine man and holy man
Scottish ballet dancer and actress (born in 1926). British ballerina and actress
a town in southeast Ontario on Lake Ontario near the head of the Saint Lawrence River. city in Ontario, Canada
god of the air and king of the Sumerian gods. ancient Mesopotamian god
a city in western Missouri situated at the confluence of the Kansas River and the Missouri River; adjacent to Kansas City, Kansas. city in Jackson, Clay, Cass, and Platte counties, Missouri, United States
United States physicist (1899-1980). American physicist
the younger brother of Edwy who became king of Northumbria when it renounced Edwy; on Edwy's death he succeeded to the throne of England (944-975). Anglo-Saxon king of England
a town in eastern New York State famed for its spa and its horse racing. city in New York, USA
(Greek mythology) the daughter of Clytemnestra and Agamemnon; Agamemnon was obliged to offer her as a sacrifice to Artemis when the Greek fleet was becalmed on its way to Troy; Artemis rescued her and she later became a priestess. figure from Greek mythology
a group of islands in the south central Pacific; part of French Polynesia. group of volcanic islands, part of an atoll in formation, to the south-east of the Tuamotus-Gambier archipelago in French Polynesia
a city in northern Illinois. county seat of Winnebago County, Illinois, United States
a former communist country in eastern Europe and northern Asia; established in 1922; included Russia and 14 other soviet socialist republics (Ukraine and Byelorussia and others); officially dissolved 31 December 1991. 1923뼰1991 country in Europe and Asia
Roman general and statesman who quarrelled with Caesar and fled to Egypt where he was murdered (106-48 BC). Roman general
(New Testament) a personification of wealth and avarice as an evil spirit. material wealth or greed, most often personified as a deity
a university town in east central Illinois adjoining Urbana. Champaign County, Illinois, United States
United States railroad executive and founder of Stanford University (1824-1893). American politician and railroad tycoon
a town in southeast Texas on Galveston Island. county seat of Galveston County, Texas, United States; port and coastal city
a peninsula of northeastern Africa (the easternmost part of Africa) comprising Somalia and Djibouti and Eritrea and parts of Ethiopia. peninsula in Northeast Africa
a port in western Israel on the Mediterranean; incorporated into Tel Aviv in 1950. old part of the city of Tel Aviv-Yafo
(Old Testament) the 11th son of Jacob and one of the 12 patriarchs of Israel; Jacob gave Joseph a coat of many colors, which made his brothers jealous and they sold him into slavery in Egypt. Biblical figure, son of Jacob/Israel and Rachel
the twelfth sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about February 19 to March 20. zodiac constellation straddling the celestial equator
Russian field marshal who commanded the Russian opposition to Napoleon (1745-1813). Field Marshal of the Russian Empire
French revolutionary; leader of the Jacobins and architect of the Reign of Terror; was himself executed in a coup d'etat (1758-1794). French revolutionary lawyer and politician
the largest freshwater lake in Asia or Europe and the deepest lake in the world. freshwater lake in Russia
a Hindu goddess who releases from sin or disease; mother of the Adityas. Mother of the gods in the Vedas
a city in central Romania in the foothills of the Transylvanian Alps. city in Bra?ov County, Romania
Norwegian writer of novels (1859-1952). Norwegian novelist
location of a colony of the United Kingdom on a limestone promontory at the southern tip of Spain; strategically important because it can control the entrance of ships into the Mediterranean; one of the Pillars of Hercules. monolithic limestone promontory located in the British overseas territory of Gibraltar
a port city of south central Ukraine on an arm of the Black Sea. city in Ukraine, the administrative center of the Odessa Oblast
a river in Palestine that empties into the Dead Sea; John the Baptist baptized Jesus in the Jordan. river in West Asia flowing to the Dead Sea
a small island off the coast of Puerto Rico with miles of beautiful beaches. island in the United States of America
a city in northern Spain on the Bay of Biscay near the French border; a fashionable seaside resort. City in Basque Country, Spain
a constellation to the east of Orion; contains Procyon. constellation straddling the celestial equator
an Old Testament book telling Joel's prophecies. book of the Bible
German ecclesiastic (1380-1471). German canon regular
an industrial city in the Donets Basin. city in Ukraine
Czech dramatist and statesman whose plays opposed totalitarianism and who served as president of Czechoslovakia from 1989 to 1992 and president of the Czech Republic since 1993 (born in 1936). playwright, essayist, poet, dissident and 1st President of the Czech Republic
Spanish painter (1617-1682). Spanish artist
a resort town in southeast Florida on an island on the Atlantic coast. town in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States
a salt desert in north central Iran. desert
daughter of George VI who became the Queen of England and Northern Ireland in 1952 on the death of her father (1926-). queen of the UK, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand, and head of the Commonwealth of Nations
German biologist who was one of the founders of modern genetics; his theory of genetic transmission ruled out the possibility of transmitting acquired characteristics (1834-1914). German evolutionary biologist
the capital of Sudan located at the confluence of the Blue Nile and White Nile. capital city of Sudan
English composer and conductor (1905-1951). British composer and conductor
French consort of Louis XIV who secretly married the king after the death of his first wife (1635-1719). Royal consort of France
a war of England and Prussia against France and Austria (1756-1763); Britain and Prussia got the better of it. global conflict between 1756 and 1763
a port city in northwestern Algeria and the country's 2nd largest city. A city in Algeria
lake in Egypt formed by dams built on the Nile River at Aswan. reservoir
Roman lyric poet remembered for his love poems to an aristocratic Roman woman (84-54 BC). Latin poet
an ancient Greek city on the western shore of Asia Minor in what is now Turkey; site of the Temple of Artemis; was a major trading center and played an important role in early Christianity. ancient city in Anatolia
French painter noted for brightly colored scenes (1877-1953). French artist
United States writer whose novels argued for social reform (1878-1968). American novelist, writer, journalist, political activist
the seat of the supreme court. city in the Free State, South Africa
United States filmmaker whose works explore the richness of black culture in America (born in 1957). American film director, film producer, writer, and actor
English poet and painter who was a leader of the Pre-Raphaelites (1828-1882). English poet, illustrator, painter and translator
a terrorist group organized in 1970 to overthrow the Japanese government and monarchy and to foment world revolution; is said to have close ties with Palestinian terrorists. communist militant group founded by Fusako Shigenobu early in 1971 in Lebanon
United States linguist whose theory of generative grammar redefined the field of linguistics (born 1928). American linguist, philosopher and activist
king of France from 1547 to 1559; regained Calais from the English; husband of Catherine de Medicis and father of Charles IX (1519-1559). 1519뼰1559, monarch of the House of Valois
the capital of Morocco; located in the northwestern on the Atlantic coast. capital of Morocco
a mountain range in the eastern United States extending from Quebec to the Gulf of Mexico; a historic barrier to early westward expansion of the United States. mountain range in the eastern United States and Canada, and France
an ancient region of western Europe that included what is now northern Italy and France and Belgium and part of Germany and the Netherlands. region of ancient Europe
40th President of the United States (1911-2004). 40th President of the United States
United States politician who was elected the first black mayor of Los Angeles (1917-1998). American mayor
port city and the capital and largest city of Guyana. capital city of Guyana
a stone obelisk built in Washington in 1884 to honor George Washington; 555 feet tall. obelisk on the National Mall in Washington, D.C.
the lowland region of western Europe on the North Sea: Belgium and Luxembourg and the Netherlands. historical coastal landscape in north western Europe
8th and most important avatar of Vishnu; incarnated as a handsome young man playing a flute. Hindu god, incarnation of Vishnu
French novelist (1871-1922). French novelist, critic, and essayist
a salutation to the Virgin Mary now used in prayers to her. traditional Catholic prayer
French poet and writer (1810-1857). French writer
a zodiacal constellation in northern hemisphere between Cancer and Virgo. zodiac constellation passing through the celestial equator
a village in eastern Ireland (northwest of Dublin); seat of Irish kings until 6th century. Hindu goddess, a form of Durga or Parvati
a government on the island of Taiwan established in 1949 by Chiang Kai-shek after the conquest of mainland China by the Communists led by Mao Zedong. democratic republic in East Asia, with limited recognition
German inventor who designed and built the first rigid motorized dirigible (1838-1917). German general and airship pioneer
state capital of Texas on the Colorado River; site of the University of Texas. city in Travis, Hays and Williamson counties, Texas, United States; Texas state capital and Travis County seat
Scottish ballad singer and music hall comedian (1870-1950). Scottish entertainer
United States rock star (1936-1959). American singer-songwriter
British writer of novels characterized by realistic analysis of provincial Victorian society (1819-1880). English novelist, essayist and translator
the capital of Turkey; located in west-central Turkey; it was formerly known as Angora and is the home of Angora goats. capital of Turkey
United States choreographer (1930-1988). Ballet choreographer
in the American Civil War (1863) the Union armies of Hooker, Thomas, and Sherman under the command of Ulysses S. Grant won a decisive victory over the Confederate Army under Braxton Bragg. Minor battle of the American Civil War
an ancient Greek colony on the Asiatic side of the Dardanelles; scene of the legend of Hero and Leander. human settlement in Turkey
French pianist and composer (1835-1921). French composer, organist, conductor, and pianist of the Romantic era
an inquisition set up in Italy in 1542 to curb the number of Protestants. Roman Inquistin
an archipelago in the western Mediterranean off the eastern coast of Spain. autonomous community of Spain
United States abolitionist and feminist who was freed from slavery and became a leading advocate of the abolition of slavery and for the rights of women (1797-1883). African-American abolitionist and women's rights activist
United States civil engineer noted for designing suspension bridges (including the George Washington Bridge) (1886-1960). American civil engineer
United States aviation pioneer who (with his brother Wilbur Wright) invented the airplane (1871-1948). American aviation pioneers
a shallow arm of the Arabian Sea between Iran and the Arabian peninsula; the Persian Gulf oil fields are among the most productive in the world. extension of the Indian Ocean
Shah of Iran who was deposed in 1979 by Islamic fundamentalists (1919-1980). Shah of Iran
Greek film actress (1925-1994). Greek actress, singer and politician
French explorer in Nova Scotia who established a settlement on the site of modern Quebec (1567-1635). French explorer and cartographer of the New World in the 1600s
King of England from 1100 to 1135; youngest son of William the Conqueror; conquered Normandy in 1106 (1068-1135). King Henry I of England (c.1068뼰1135)
World War II (February 1944); American infantry landed and captured a Japanese stronghold. 1944 World War II battle
king of Persia who led a vast army against Greece and won the battle of Thermopylae but was eventually defeated (519-465 BC). Ancient Persian king
a republic in the western central Pacific Ocean in association with the United States. republic in Oceania
1st President of the United States; commander-in-chief of the Continental Army during the American Revolution (1732-1799). First President of the United States
American Revolutionary leader (born in Prussia) who trained the troops under George Washington (1730-1794). Continental army general
prince consort of Queen Victoria of England (1819-1861). husband of Queen Victoria
Emperor of Rome; adoptive son of Hadrian (86-161). Emperor of Ancient Rome
(Greek mythology) the wife of Orpheus. oak nymph, or one of the daughters of Apollo
a politician in Wyoming who was the first woman governor in the United States (1876-1977). American politician
a town in western Mississippi on the Mississippi River to the north of Vicksburg. city in Washington County, Mississippi, United States
a minor Hebrew prophet (8th century BC). prophet
an inlet of the Atlantic Ocean on the western coast of Scotland. sea loch on the west coast of Scotland
a vast area of the North Atlantic from the West Indies to the Azores that is dense with gulfweed. region in the gyre in the middle of the North Atlantic Ocean
the state capital of Alaska. city in and state capital of Alaska, United States
Confederate general in the American Civil War; led the Confederate troops in the West (1807-1891). Confederate Army general
United States landscape architect who designed the grounds of the White House and the Capitol Building (1815-1852). American landscape designer
United States writer and poet (1809-1849). American author, poet, editor and literary critic
a part of Niagara Falls in Ontario. waterfall of the Niagara Falls
2nd President of the United States (1735-1826). 2nd President of the United States (1797뼰1801)
Austrian virtuoso pianist and composer of many works for the piano; studied with Beethoven and was a teacher of Liszt (1791-1857). Austrian composer and pianist
United States feminist (born in 1934). American feminist and journalist
English poet; remembered primarily as the author of an epic poem describing humanity's fall from grace (1608-1674). English epic poet
German anatomist (1829-1905). German anatomist
United States artist who was a leader of the Pop Art movement (1930-1987). American artist and director
(Arthurian legend) the capital of King Arthur's kingdom; according to the legend, truth and goodness and beauty reigned there. castle and court associated with King Arthur
a city in southwestern New Jersey on the Delaware River near Philadelphia. city in Camden County, New Jersey, United States
a village in northeastern Virginia where battles were fought during the American Civil War. county in Virginia, United States
(Old Testament) the wife of Uriah and later the wife of king David; Solomon was her son by David (circa 10th century BC). Biblical figure
a Japanese city on northern Kyushu. city in Fukuoka Prefecture, Kyushu, Japan
German field marshal noted for brilliant generalship in North Africa during World War II (1891-1944). German field marshal of World War II
United States writer who wrote about frontier life (1873-1947). American writer and novelist
French filmmaker (1932-1984). French film director
a city in western Florida on Tampa Bay; a popular winter resort. city in Pinellas County, Florida, United States
the first Stuart to be king of England and Ireland from 1603 to 1625 and king of Scotland from 1567 to 1625; he was the son of Mary Queen of Scots and he succeeded Elizabeth I; he alienated the British Parliament by claiming the divine right of kings (1566-1625). king during union of English and Scottish crowns
a librettist who was a collaborator with Sir Arthur Sullivan in a famous series of comic operettas (1836-1911). English librettist of the Gilbert & Sullivan duo
an industrial city in northwestern Czech Republic in the Moravian lowlands; located in the coal mining area of Silesia. city in the Czech Republic
Scottish theologian who was very influential in the Middle Ages (1265-1308). Scottish Franciscan friar, philosopher and Catholic blessed
United States composer who developed a distinctly American music (1900-1990). American composer, composition teacher, writer, and conductor
United States jurist who served as chief justice of the Supreme Court (1890-1953). American politician and Supreme Court justice
any of a group of British islands in the English Channel off the northern coast of France. archipelago in the English Channel
a city in southwestern Poland on the Oder. city in Lower Silesian Voivodeship, Poland
a faint constellation in the southern hemisphere near Hydra and Corvus. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
a city in Arizona just to the east of Phoenix; originally a suburb of Phoenix. city in Maricopa County, Arizona, United States
Austrian composer known for his compositions for voice and piano (1797-1828). Austrian composer
the French military base fell after a siege by Vietnam troops that lasted 56 days; ended the involvement of France in Indochina in 1954. city in the Northwest region of Vietnam, best known for events during the First Indochina War
city in central Iran; former capital of Persia. capital of Isfahan Province in Iran
the son of Nicholas I who, as czar of Russia, introduced reforms that included limited emancipation of the serfs (1818-1881). Emperor of Russia
Belgian cosmologist who proposed the big-bang theory of the origin of the universe (1894-1966). Belgian scientist and priest
English film actress (1913-1967). British actress
city in southern Uzbekistan; Tamerlane's opulent capital in the 14th century. city in Uzbekistan
the smallest and easternmost of the Greater Antilles in the Caribbean. unincorporated territory of the United States
the administrative center of the Faroe Islands. capital of the Faroe Islands
German writer of novels and poetry and plays (born 1927). German novelist, poet, playwright, illustrator, graphic artist, sculptor
United States painter noted for brilliant colors and bold brushwork (1859-1935). American painter
a city in the mountains in western Angola. city in Angola
a book in the Old Testament containing Job's pleas to God about his afflictions and God's reply. book of the Bible
risque English comedian (1925-1992). English comedian and actor
thoroughbred that won the triple crown in 1941. Thoroughbred race horse; winner of U.S. Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing in 1941
any of numerous local fertility and nature deities worshipped by ancient Semitic peoples; the Hebrews considered Baal a false god. deity
Italian histologist noted for work on the structure of the nervous system and for his discovery of Golgi bodies (1844-1926). Italian physician, pathologist, scientist, and Nobel laureate
English dramatist noted for his comic verse dramas (born 1907). British writer
United States neoclassical architect (1847-1909). American Beaux-Arts architect
English writer of adventure novels featuring Captain Horatio Hornblower (1899-1966). British novelist
queen of the Olympian gods in ancient Greek mythology; sister and wife of Zeus remembered for her jealously of the many mortal women Zeus fell in love with; identified with Roman Juno. godess from Greek mythology, wife and sister of Zeus
United States writer and critic of urban planning (born in 1916). American뼰깺凉쾎nadian journalist, author on urbanism and activist (1916-2006)
United States financier noted for his love of diamonds and his extravagant lifestyle (1856-1917). American businessman
United States architect who designed the first important skyscraper with a skeleton (1846-1912). American architect and urban designer
the town was taken from the Turks by the Russians in 1877 after a siege of 143 days. the seventh most populous city in Bulgaria
(Roman mythology) god of love; counterpart of Greek Eros. Roman deity, counterpart of Eros
a city in southwestern Russia on the delta of the Volga River. city in the south of Russia
a part of Niagara Falls in western New York (north of Buffalo). waterfall of the Niagara Falls
a national park in Arizona including the mile deep canyon of the Colorado River which shows geologic features and fossil plants and animals. national park of the United States in Arizona
the second great battle of the American Civil War (1862); the battle ended with the withdrawal of Confederate troops but it was not a Union victory. major battle of the American Civil War, fought in southwestern Tennessee
prose works attached to the Samhitas instructing the bahmins to perform the very elaborate sacrificial rituals. A layer of Hindu text within the Vedas
Greek philosopher (560-478 BC). Presocratic philosopher
the first Lancastrian king of England from 1399 to 1413; deposed Richard II and suppressed rebellions (1367-1413). King of England and Lord of Ireland
a mountain in the Andes on the border between Argentina and Chile (22,310 feet high). stratovolcano located on the border between Argentina and Chile
oppressive Haitian dictator (1907-1971). 40th President of the Republic of Haiti
a former country of southeastern Europe bordering the Adriatic Sea; formed in 1918 and named Yugoslavia in 1929; controlled by Marshal Tito as a communist state until his death in 1980. 1918뼰1992 country in Southeastern and Central Europe
Hindu goddess of war; a malevolent aspect of Devi. warrior goddess of Hinduism
a university in Madison, Wisconsin. public research university in Madison, Wisconsin., USA
United States writer (born in Romania) who survived Nazi concentration camps and is dedicated to keeping alive the memory of the Holocaust (born in 1928). Romanian-born Jewish Holocaust survivor, writer, professor, activist, and thinker.
a city of east central Honshu; a suburb of Tokyo. former city located in Saitama Prefecture, Japan
United States physicist who developed the first successful liquid-fueled rocket (1882-1945). American physicist
Russian novelist (1891-1967). Russian-Soviet writer and poet
prelate who was the confessor of Isabella I and who was later appointed Grand Inquisitor (1436-1517). Catholic cardinal
English social anthropologist noted for studies of primitive religion and magic (1854-1941). Scottish social anthropologist
an operating system developed by Bill Gates for personal computers. discontinued operating system for x86
United States tennis player who in 1938 was the first to win the Australian and French and English and United States singles championship in the same year (1915-2000). American tennis player
a major mountain range of central Asia; extends 1,500 miles. system of mountain ranges located in Central Asia
a stone in a castle in Ireland that is said to impart skill in flattery to anyone who kisses it. historical object
a country in the northern Leeward Islands. country in the Caribbean
a city in northern Indiana. city in Indiana, United States of America
Italian novelist and poet (1785-1873). Italian poet and novelist
city in western Austria; a music center and birthplace of Mozart. city in Salzburg federated state, Austria
English novelist (1909-1957). British writer
Emperor of Rome who introduced a degree of freedom after the repressive reign of Domitian; adopted Trajan as his successor (30-98). Emperor of Ancient Rome
a city of central Iraq to the south of Baghdad; a holy city for Shiite Muslims because it is the site of the tomb of Mohammed's grandson who was killed there in 680. city in Iraq
an independent state within the British Commonwealth located on the Fiji Islands. country in Oceania
a lake on the border between Nevada and California to the west of Carson City; a popular resort area. lake in California and Nevada, United States
the capital of New Zealand. capital of New Zealand; urban area of the cities of Wellington, Lower Hutt, Upper Hutt, and Porirua
Englishman and Pre-Raphaelite painter (1827-1910). Pre-Raphaelite artist
part of the Arctic Ocean to the north of Siberia (between the Taimyr Peninsula and the New Siberian Islands) that is icebound most of the year. sea in Arctic Ocean
a battle between the armies of Grant and Lee during the Wilderness Campaign. major battle of the American Civil War
an autonomous republic in southwestern Russia in the northern Caucasus Mountains bordering on Georgia; declared independence from the USSR in 1991 but Russian troops invaded and continue to prosecute a relentless military campaign in the largely Muslim republic. republic of Russia, federal subject of Russia
German physicist who founded psychophysics; derived Fechner's law on the basis of early work by E. H. Weber (1801-1887). German scientist
United States educator who founded the first private school for Black students in Augusta, Georgia (1854-1933). Founder of the Haines Normal and Industrial School, Augusta, Georgia.
Danish historian who chronicled the history of Denmark (including the legend of Hamlet) (1150?-1220?). Danish historian
a Greek island to the west of Greece; in Homeric legend Odysseus was its king. Greek island in the Ionian Sea
a river that rises in northern West Virginia and flows north into Pennsylvania where it joins the Allegheny River at Pittsburgh to form the Ohio River. river in Pennsylvania and West Virginia, United States
Greek philosopher and astronomer; she invented the astrolabe (370-415). Greek Neoplatonist philosopher
English statesman who served as prime minister and who opposed the war with the American colonies (1730-1782). British Prime Minister
a fertile valley in southern California to the north of Los Angeles; includes many residential communities. valley in Los Angeles County, California, USA
Russian composer of ballets and symphonies and operas (1891-1953). Ukrainian & Russian Soviet pianist and composer
Germanic barbarian leader who ended the Western Roman Empire in 476 and became the first barbarian ruler of Italy (434-493). 5th-century Germanic soldier and monarch
Russian painter who was a pioneer of abstract art (1866-1944). Russian painter
German theologian and Luther's successor as leader of the Reformation in Germany (1497-1560). German reformer
a former country bordering on the Adriatic Sea; now part of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro. republic in Southeastern Europe
English writer (1672-1729). British politician
a terrorist group of limited popularity formed in 1967 after the Six-Day War; combined Marxist-Leninist ideology with Palestinian nationalism; used terrorism to gain attention for their cause; hoped to eliminate the state of Israel. political party
a river in South Africa that flows generally westward to the Atlantic Ocean. river
United States vaudevillian (born in Russia) noted for her flamboyant performances (1884-1966). Russian-born American singer, comedian, actress and radio personality
the Italian pope from 1406 to 1415 who worked to end the Great Schism and who retired to make it possible (1327-1417). Pope from 1406 to 1415, resigned
United States writer of science fiction (1907-1988). American science fiction author
United States physicist (born in Russia) who was a proponent of the big-bang theory and who did research in radioactivity and suggested the triplet code for DNA (1904-1968). Russian-American physicist and science writer
a town in western Mississippi on bluffs above the Mississippi River to the west of Jackson; focus of an important campaign during the American Civil War as the Union fought to control the Mississippi River and so to cut the Confederacy into two halves. city in the US state of Mississippi
the area of the states of North Carolina and South Carolina. region
a political scandal involving abuse of power and bribery and obstruction of justice; led to the resignation of Richard Nixon in 1974. political scandal that occurred in the United States in the 1970s
a river in North Carolina that flows southeast to the Atlantic Ocean at Cape Fear. river in North Carolina, United States
socialist Mexican painter of murals (1886-1957). Mexican painter and muralist
United States biochemist (born in Poland) who showed that several diseases were caused by dietary deficiencies and who coined the term `vitamin' for the chemicals involved (1884-1967). Polish biochemist
region of western Asia Minor colonized by ancient Greeks. region in Turkey
American financier and American Revolutionary War patriot who helped fund the army during the American Revolution (1740?-1785). American businessman
an Italian poet famous for writing the Divine Comedy that describes a journey through Hell and purgatory and paradise guided by Virgil and his idealized Beatrice (1265-1321). Italian poet
a port city on the Atlantic coast of Portugal to the southeast of Lisbon. city and municipal capital in Portugal
statesman of ancient Rome who (with Cassius) led a conspiracy to assassinate Julius Caesar (85-42 BC). Roman politician
an inlet of the Yellow Sea between the Liaodong Peninsula in China and western Korea. northern extension of the Yellow Sea
United States novelist; author of several popular novels (1887-1968). American novelist, short story writer and playwright
a group of Japanese Islands in the northwestern Pacific Ocean to the north of the Marianas. island group
the first New Testament epistle traditionally attributed to Saint John the Apostle. book of the Bible
the three pure ones; the three chief gods of Taoism. the three highest gods in the Taoist pantheon, regarded as pure manifestation of the Tao and the origin of all sentient beings
Dutch painter renowned for his use of light (1632-1675). Dutch painter
Norse chieftain who became the first duke of Normandy (860-931). Viking who became the first ruler of Normandy
an island comprising England and Scotland and Wales. island in the North Atlantic off the north-west coast of continental Europe
King of Great Britain and Elector of Hanover from 1727 to 1760 (1683-1760). British monarch
a city in northeastern Brazil near the Atlantic Ocean to the north of Recife. municipality of Paraiba, state capital
United States filmmaker (born in 1939). American film director and producer
a port city in southwestern British Columbia on an arm of the Pacific Ocean opposite Vancouver Island; Canada's chief Pacific port and third largest city. largest city in British Columbia, Canada
one of the stars in the star cluster Pleiades. two stars in the constellation Taurus
an important battle in the American Civil War (1862); the Union Army under A. E. Burnside was defeated by the Confederate Army under Robert E. Lee. major battle of the American Civil War
Russian composer (born in Armenia) whose works are romantic and reflect his interest in folk music (1903-1978). Soviet composer and conductor
United States gangster who terrorized Chicago during prohibition until arrested for tax evasion (1899-1947). American gangster
United States jurist who was named chief justice of the United States Supreme Court in 1941 by Franklin D. Roosevelt (1872-1946). United States federal judge
a Buddhist who has attained nirvana. in Buddhism, one who has gained insight into the true nature of existence
a town in northeast Texas. city in east Texas, USA
port city in Sudan on the Red Sea. place in Red Sea State, Sudan
a city in southeastern South Korea. city in Yeongnam region, South Korea
(Greek mythology) a maiden seduced by Zeus; when Hera was about to discover them together Zeus turned her into a white heifer. nymph seduced by Zeus in Greek mythology
United States writer (1890-1945). Austrian-Bohemian author
a vast Asian region of Russia; famous for long cold winters. ancient continent
Hindu earth goddess; one of the two wives of Vishnu. Hindu goddess representing Mother Earth
United States newspaper publisher (1858-1935). American newspaper publisher, former owner of The New York Times and The Chattanooga Times
Swiss mathematician (1707-1783). Swiss mathematician
English lyric poet (1887-1915). British poet
French statesman and president of France from 1981 to 1985 (1916-1996). 21st President of the French Republic
a former Palestinian terrorist organization (now merged with Fatah Revolutionary Council) that assassinated the Prime Minister of Jordan and during the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich killed 11 Israeli athletes. Palestinian terrorist organization
(Norse mythology) goddess of spring and wife of Bragi; guarded the apples that kept the gods eternally young. Norse deity
a river that rises in the Rockies in northwestern Montana and flows eastward to become a tributary of the Missouri River. river in Montana, United States and Alberta, Canada
capital and largest city of Queensland state; located in the southeastern corner of Queensland on the Pacific; settled by British as a penal colony; 3rd largest city in Australia. capital city of Queensland, Australia
the capital of Chechnya in southwestern Russia; center of extensive oil fields. capital city of the Chechen Republic, Russia
Florentine sculptor and painter and architect; one of the outstanding figures of the Renaissance (1475-1564). Italian sculptor, painter, architect and poet
a Marxist-Leninist terrorist organization that arose out of a student protest movement in the late 1960s; wants to separate Italy from NATO and advocates violence in the service of class warfare and revolution; mostly inactive since 1989. Italian militant group
(Greek mythology) the god of the sea and earthquakes in ancient mythology; brother of Zeus and Hades and Hera; identified with Roman Neptune. God of the seas in Greek mythology
French explorer who claimed Louisiana for France (1643-1687). French explorer
Holy Roman Emperor from 1152 to 1190; conceded supremacy to the pope; drowned leading the Third Crusade (1123-1190). German Holy Roman Emperor
English impresario who brought Gilbert and Sullivan together and produced many of their operettas in London (1844-1901). English theatre manager and producer
English philosopher and jurist; founder of utilitarianism (1748-1831). British philosopher, jurist, and social reformer
author of satirical attacks on medieval scholasticism (1494-1553). French writer
a mountain range running along the eastern coast of Australia. mountain range
the capital of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines; on Saint Vincent. capital of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
the northwestern region of the United States. geographical region of the United States
mountains in Antarctica to the north of Victoria Land. mountain range
a geographical area and former kingdom in northeastern India in the Himalaya Mountains between Nepal and Bhutan. Indian state
a French river that flows through the heart of Paris and then northward into the English Channel. river in France
United States statesman who promoted the Marshall Plan and helped establish NATO (1893-1971). Statesman and lawyer
Italian violinist and composer of music for the violin (1782-1840). Italian violinist, violist, guitarist, composer
a fictional detective in novels by Georges Simenon. fictional French police detective
C. Northcote Parkinson's cynical observation that work will expand so as to fill the time available for its completion. adage
Australian woman tennis player who won many major championships (born in 1947). Australian tennis player
United States general and statesman who as Secretary of State organized the European Recovery Program (1880-1959). US military leader, Army Chief of Staff
a republic in central Europe. republic in Central Europe
a district in Manhattan formerly noted for its slums and vice. neighborhood of Manhattan in New York City
the largest Chilean island and the only one to be settled; located off south-central Chile. island group of Chile
a city in Colorado to the south of Colorado Springs. Native Americans in the Southwestern United States
United States stage and screen director (born in Turkey) and believer in method acting (1909-2003). Greek-American film and theatre director, film and theatrical producer, screenwriter, novelist
Greek author of fables (circa 620-560 BC). ancient Greek storyteller
English writer (born in India) (1811-1863). novelist
the mass murder of Jews under the German Nazi regime from 1941 until 1945. Nazi plan for the genocide or extermination of the Jews
Italian pope from 1700 to 1721 who condemned Jansenist ideas on papal infallibility. pope
thoroughbred that won the triple crown in 1946. Thoroughbred race horse; winner of U.S. Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing in 1946
a Spanish island in the Atlantic off the northwestern coast of Africa; the largest of the Canary Islands. island of the Canary Islands, Spain
English writer who settled in Norway after World War II (1899-1960). British writer and engineer
English conspirator who claimed that there was a Jesuit plot to assassinate Charles II (1649-1705). English perjurer
the awaited king of the Jews; the promised and expected deliverer of the Jewish people. saviour or liberator of a group of people, most commonly in the Abrahamic religions
United States harpsichordist (born in Poland) who helped to revive modern interest in the harpsichord (1879-1959). Polish-French classical harpsichordist
a region of northeastern Spain. autonomous community of Spain
Carthaginian theologian whose writing influenced early Christian theology (160-230). Christian theologian
(Old Testament) Moses' successor who led the Israelites into the Promised Land; best remembered for his destruction of Jericho. figure in the Torah
Jewish leader of a revolt in Judea that recovered Jerusalem around 166 BC; hero of the Apocryphal books I Maccabees and II Maccabees (?-161 BC). Jewish revolutionary
Belgian architect (1863-1957). Belgian painter, architect and interior designer
Greek mathematician and astronomer who estimated the circumference of the earth and the distances to the Moon and sun (276-194 BC). ancient Greek scientist
king of Sweden whose victories in battle made Sweden a European power; his domestic reforms made Sweden a modern state; in 1630 he intervened on the Protestant side of the Thirty Years' War and was killed in the battle of Lutzen (1594-1632). Swedish king 1611뼰32
a collection of mantras and formulas. One of four Vedas
a peninsula in southwestern Europe. peninsula located in the extreme southwest of Europe
Queen of England as the fifth wife of Henry VIII who was accused of adultery and executed (1520-1542). Fifth wife of Henry VIII of England
a cantilever bridge across the Hudson River. Wikimedia disambiguation page
Hindu mother goddess; supreme power in the universe; wife or embodiment of the female energy of Siva having both beneficent and malevolent forms or aspects. goddess in Hinduism, supreme feminine principle
a state in south central United States; one of the Confederate states during the American Civil War. state of the United States
a Mid-Atlantic state on the Atlantic; one of the original 13 colonies. state of the United States of America
a street in Manhattan noted for cheap hotels frequented by homeless derelicts. street and neighborhood in Manhattan
ancient city to the southeast of Naples that was buried by a volcanic eruption from Vesuvius. ancient Roman town-city near modern Naples, Italy
a war (1812-1814) between the United States and England which was trying to interfere with American trade with France. 32-month military conflict between the United States and the British Empire
the second largest continent; located to the south of Europe and bordered to the west by the South Atlantic and to the east by the Indian Ocean. continent on the Earth's northern and southern hemispheres
United States diplomat who served under President Nixon and President Ford (born in 1923). United States Secretary of State
an Asian river that rises in Tibet and flows through northern India and then southwest through Kashmir and Pakistan to the Arabian Sea. river in Asia
French bishop who is a patron saint of France (died in 397). Christian saint
United States financier and philanthropist who left money to found the university and hospital that bear his name in Baltimore (1795-1873). Entrepreneur, philanthropist, and abolitionist
(possibly Roman mythology) Celtic goddess of horses and mules and asses. mythical creature
French physicist who discovered that rays emitted by uranium salts affect photographic plates (1852-1908). French physicist
a part of the Gulf of Mexico to the west of Yucatan. bay
king of Northumbria who was converted to Christianity (585-633). King of Deira and Bernicia
Russian dramatist whose plays are concerned with the difficulty of communication between people (1860-1904). Russian dramatist, author and physician
United States writer noted for his stories about life during the California gold rush (1836-1902). American author and poet
Polish labor leader and statesman (born in 1943). Polish politician, Nobel Peace Prize winner, former President of Poland
(Arthurian legend) the battlefield where King Arthur was mortally wounded. Legendary conflict
French lexicographer (1817-1875). French grammarian, lexicographer and encyclopaedist
grandson of Louis XIV and king of France from 1715 to 1774 who led France into the War of the Austrian Succession and the Seven Years' War (1710-1774). Bourbon monarch who ruled as King of France and of Navarre 1715-1774
United States newspaper publisher and half-brother of Edward Wyllis Scripps (1835-1908). British journalist
Italian composer remembered for his symphonic poems (1879-1936). Italian composer, musicologist and conductor
(Greek mythology) the goddess of fortune; identified with Roman Fortuna. Oceanid of Greek mythology
a fictional beagle in a comic strip drawn by Charles Schulz. cartoon dog
the seal of the United States government. national seal
American inventor who designed the first commercially successful steamboat and the first steam warship (1765-1815). American engineer and inventor
Austrian zoologist who studied the behavior of birds and emphasized the importance of innate as opposed to learned behaviors (1903-1989). Austrian zoologist, winner of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1973
United States filmmaker noted for his film adaptations of popular novels (1902-1965). American film producer
the peninsula between Lake Superior and Lake Michigan that forms the northwestern part of Michigan. Northern major peninsula of the US state of Michigan
a mountain peak in the Karakoram Range in northern Kashmir (25,560 feet high). mountain
archduke of Austria and heir apparent to Francis Joseph I; his assassination at Sarajevo triggered the outbreak of World War I (1863-1914). Austrian archduke and crown prince
an Arab kingdom in Asia on the northwestern coast of the Persian Gulf; a major source of petroleum. state in Western Asia
the largest city in North Carolina; located in south central North Carolina. county seat of Mecklenburg County,  North Carolina, United States
realistic Norwegian author who wrote plays on social and political themes (1828-1906). Norwegian playwright, theatre director, and poet
an island in the Mediterranean; with adjacent islets it constitutes a region of France. territorial collectivity of France
a Norwegian archipelago in the Arctic Ocean. archipelago in the Arctic Ocean
United States educator (born in Canada) who invented the game of basketball (1861-1939). Canadian-American coach; inventor of  basketball
the southern peninsula of Greece; dominated by Sparta until the 4th century BC. large peninsula and geographic region in southern Greece
an English satirist born in Ireland (1667-1745). Anglo-Irish satirist, essayist, and poet
one of the greatest tragic dramatists of ancient Greece (480-406 BC). ancient Athenian playwright
the largest national park of the United States; located in Alaska. United States national park and national preserve in south-central Alaska
a city in northeastern Ohio; the heart of the United States rubber industry. county seat of Summit County, Ohio, United States
United States biologist who discovered how hereditary characteristics are transmitted by genes (1903-1989). American geneticist
Scottish physiologist who directed the research by F. G. Banting and C. H. Best that led to the discovery of insulin (1876-1935). Scottish physician and physiologist
a region of northeastern Spain; a former kingdom that united with Castile in 1479 to form Spain (after the marriage of Ferdinand V and Isabella I). autonomous community in Spain
a city in eastern Georgia north-northwest of Savannah; noted for golf tournaments. city in Richmond County, Georgia, United States
a city in southern California (southeast of Los Angeles); site of Disneyland. city in California
an archipelago of small islands off the southwestern coast of England near the entrance to the English Channel; formerly a haven for smugglers and pirates. chain of islands off the south-westernmost point of mainland Britain
a series of waterfalls in Yosemite National Park in California; is reduced to a trickle for part of each year. waterfall
French playwright (1791-1861). French dramatist and librettist
an ancient city in central Palestine founded in the 9th century BC as the capital of the northern Hebrew kingdom of Israel; the site is in present-day northwestern Jordan. region of ancient Israel
a city in northwestern England (30 miles to the east of Liverpool); heart of the most densely populated area of England. major city in Greater Manchester, England, UK
United States poet (1879-1955). American poet
a battle in 217 BC in which Hannibal ambushed a Roman army led by Flaminius. major battle of the Second Punic War
a war in Crimea between Russia and a group of nations including England and France and Turkey and Sardinia; 1853-1856. military conflict fought between October 1853 뼰 March 1856
a Russian river; the longest river in Europe; flows into the Caspian Sea. river in Russia, the longest river in Europe
Canadian hockey player who holds the record for playing the most games (born 1928). Canadian ice hockey player
a battle in central Italy where Hannibal defeated the Romans under Flaminius in 217 BC. major battle of the Second Punic War
the isthmus between the Gulf of Finland and Lake Ladoga that connects Finland and Russia. isthmus
French composer and exponent of Impressionism (1875-1937). French composer
the capital of Sicily; located in northwestern Sicily; an important port for 3000 years. Italian city, capital of Sicily
born in England; in 1629 he became the founder of the Massachusetts Bay Colony (1588-1665). governor of Massachusetts Bay Colony
a city in southwestern Russia in a valley of the Caucasus Mountains; an industrial center and health resort. city in the south of Russia
a group of islands in the southeast Aegean Sea. group of Greek islands in the Aegean Sea; former prefecture
English writer of Irish descent who spent much of his life in Mediterranean regions (1912-1990). British novelist, poet, dramatist, and travel writer
a British revision of the Authorized Version. bible version based on the King James Version
a city of southeastern Latvia. city in Latvia
United States playwright who collaborated with many other writers including Moss Hart (1889-1961). American writer
a strait of the North Sea between Jutland and Sweden; connects with the North Sea through the Skagerrak. sea area between Denmark and Sweden
a chain of coral and volcanic islands in Micronesia (including Guam and the Northern Marianas) halfway between New Guinea and Japan; discovered by Magellan in 1521. archipelago in western North Pacific Ocean
king of Saudi Arabia from 1982 to 2005 (1923-2005). King of Saudi Arabia from 1982 to 2005
a peninsula in western Alaska that projects westward into the Bering Sea just below the Arctic Circle. peninsula
a city in western Saudi Arabia to the east of Mecca. City in Saudi Arabia
the largest island in the Northern Marianas and the administrative center of the commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in union with the United States. largest island of the Northern Mariana Islands, United States of America
United States athlete who revolutionized the high jump by introducing the Fosbury flop in the 1968 Olympics (born in 1947). American athletics competitor, high jumper
United States painter best known for his portraits of George Washington (1755-1828). American painter
United States lyricist who collaborated on musicals with Frederick Loewe (1918-1986). American lyricist and librettist
United States religious leader who founded the sect that is now called Jehovah's Witnesses (1852-1916). Founder of the Bible Student Movement
German theologian (1700-1760). German protestant religious and social reformer, bishop of the Moravian Church
a group of islands in Micronesia to the southwest of Hawaii; formerly part of the British colony of Gilbert and Ellice Islands until it became part of the Republic of Kiribati in 1979. chain of sixteen atolls and coral islands in the Pacific Ocean
the chief satyr in the service of Bacchus; father of Dionysus; usually depicted as drunk and jolly and riding a donkey. figure in Greek mythology; tutor to Dionysus
United States financier and philanthropist (1855-1937). American diplomat, banker, businessman, industrialist, philanthropist, and art collector
a island in the Netherlands Antilles that is the top of an extinct volcano. island in the Caribbean, part of the Netherlands
a town in Morocco near the Atlantic coast. capital of Western Sahara
United States film actor (1925-2001). American actor
United States admiral who led a naval expedition to Japan and signed a treaty in 1854 opening up trade relations between United States and Japan; brother of Oliver Hazard Perry (1794-1858). American admiral
6th President of the United States; son of John Adams (1767-1848). American politician, 6th President of the United States (in office from 1825 to 1829)
United States suffragist (1820-1906). American women's rights activist
a British or Irish monk who denied the doctrines of original sin and predestination and defended human goodness and free will; his views were declared heretical by the Council of Ephesus in 431 (circa 360-418). British monk
United States filmmaker (born in 1942). American film director, screenwriter, producer and actor
a historical area in west-central India. Indian state
the capital and largest city of Niger. capital of Niger
English merchant who expanded his father's shop in London into a prestigious department store (1841-1905). British businessman
the third sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about May 21 to June 20. third astrological sign in the zodiac
an Asian republic at east end of Mediterranean. republic in Western Asia
a mountain the Himalayas on the border between Nepal and Tibet (28,208 feet high). 3rd highest mountain in the world
a well-known beach and resort area on Oahu Island to the southeast of Honolulu. neighborhood of Honolulu, Hawaii, United States
an industrial conurbation in northeastern China on the southern end of the Liaodong Peninsula; it now includes the cities of Dalian and Lushun. sub-provincial city in Liaoning, China
United States film actress (born in Germany) who made many films with Josef von Sternberg and later was a successful cabaret star (1901-1992). German-American actress and singer
Italian chemist noted for work on polymers (1903-1979). Italian chemist
Austrian composer of waltzes (1804-1849). Austrian Romantic composer
an artificial waterway connecting the Hudson river at Albany with Lake Erie at Buffalo; built in the 19th century; now part of the New York State Barge Canal. Waterway in New York, USA
Scottish bacteriologist who discovered penicillin (1881-1955). Scottish biologist, pharmacologist
United States violinist (born in Russia) (1889-1985). Russian violinist, composer and conductor
one of the British colonies that formed the United States. state on east coast of United States of America
the medieval Russian state established by Scandinavian traders in the 9th century; the capital was first in Novgorod and then in Kiev. former federation of East Slavic tribes
a creek in northeastern Virginia where two battles were fought in the American Civil War. river in northern Virginia, United States
French revolutionary leader who stormed the Paris bastille and who supported the execution of Louis XVI but was guillotined by Robespierre for his opposition to the Reign of Terror (1759-1794). French revolutionary
a town in western Alaska on the southern coast of the Seward Peninsula; an important center of an Alaskan gold rush at the beginning of the 20th century. city in Alaska, USA
United States writer of children's books (1856-1919). American children's writer, editor, journalist, screenwriter
a city in central Bolivia. capital of the Santa Cruz department in eastern Bolivia
the revolution against James II; there was little armed resistance to William and Mary in England although battles were fought in Scotland and Ireland (1688-1689). 17th Century British revolution
English paleontologist whose account of fossil discoveries in Tanzania changed theories of human evolution (1903-1972). British archaeologist and naturalist whose work was important in establishing human evolutionary development in Africa
a river in southeastern China that flows generally north into the Chang Jiang to the north of Nanchang. river in Russia
a strait between northeastern Australia and southern New Guinea that connects the Coral Sea with the Arafura Sea. strait which lies between Australia and the Melanesian island of New Guinea
French composer of operas whose writings laid the foundation for the modern theory of harmony (1683-1764). French Baroque composer and music theorist
United States singer who began singing with his four brothers and later became a highly successful star during the 1980s (born in 1958). American singer and songwriter
a tributary of the Snake River in Idaho. river in Idaho, United States
Italian composer of operas (1797-1848). Italian opera composer
a bloody and prolonged operation on the island of Iwo Jima in which American marines landed and defeated Japanese defenders (February and March 1945). major battle in which US\xa0Forces captured the island of Iwo\xa0Jima from Japan during World War\xa0II
a 19th century family of three sisters who all wrote novels. nineteenth-century literary family
Austrian investigator of Nazi war crimes (born in 1908). Austrian Holocaust survivor noted for his work as a Nazi hunter
the highest peak in the Rocky Mountains in central Colorado (14,431 feet high). highest mountain in the US state of Colorado
an arm of the Tyrrhenian Sea at Naples. bay
German chemist (born in Austria) honored for his research on colloidal solutions (1865-1929). Austrian chemist
the Hebrew patriarch who saved himself and his family and the animals by building an ark in which they survived 40 days and 40 nights of rain; the story of Noah and the flood is told in the Book of Genesis. Biblical figure
queen of Scotland from 1542 to 1567; as a Catholic she was forced to abdicate in favor of her son and fled to England where she was imprisoned by Elizabeth I; when Catholic supporters plotted to put her on the English throne she was tried and executed for sedition (1542-1587). Scottish monarch and queen consort of France
a former town on the Bosporus (now part of Istanbul); site of the Council of Chalcedon. In Constantinople, Byzantine empire
the peninsula and island in the Philippines where Japanese forces besieged American forces in World War II; United States forces surrendered in 1942 and recaptured the area in 1945. intense phase of Imperial Japan's invasion of the Philippines during World War II
an ancient country in central Italy; assimilated by the Romans by about 200 BC. region of Central Italy
(Greek mythology) Greek goddess of fertility who later became associated with Persephone as goddess of the underworld and protector of witches. Greek goddess
United States chess master; world champion from 1972 to 1975 (born in 1943). American chess player and chess writer
(Greek mythology) the Titan who was father of Atlas and Epimetheus and Prometheus in ancient mythology. Titan in Greek mythology
a country on the Comoro Islands. sovereign archipelago island nation in the Indian Ocean
English chemist noted for his studies of molecular structures in plants (1886-1975). English chemist
18th President of the United States; commander of the Union armies in the American Civil War (1822-1885). Union general, politician and 18th President of the United States
French classical painter (1780-1867). French painter
influential Irish writer noted for his many innovations (such as stream of consciousness writing) (1882-1941). Irish novelist and poet
king of Sparta and hero of the battle of Thermopylae where he was killed by the Persians (died in 480 BC). king of Sparta
a former town and present-day neighborhood of Boston; settled in 1629. neighborhood (former town) of Boston, Massachusetts, United States
English comedian and film maker; portrayed a downtrodden little man in baggy pants and bowler hat (1889-1977). British comic actor and filmmaker
the 2nd smallest continent (actually a vast peninsula of Eurasia); the British use `Europe' to refer to all of the continent except the British Isles. continent on Earth, mainly on the northeastern quadrant, i.e. north-western Eurasia
United States professional baseball player famous for hitting home runs (1895-1948). American baseball player
part of the Arctic Ocean just to the north of the Bering Strait. sea
English poet (1824-1897). English poet and critic
English general and statesman who led the parliamentary army in the English Civil War (1599-1658). English military and political leader
French poet; precursor of surrealism (1880-1918). French poet
reclusive Afghanistani politician and leader of the Taliban who imposed a strict interpretation of shariah law on Afghanistan (born in 1960). Founder and former leader of the Taliban
a province of northeastern South Africa originally inhabited by Africans who spoke Bantu; colonized by the Boers. former province of South Africa
French philosopher (1638-1715). philosopher
the northernmost county of England; has many Roman remains (including Hadrian's Wall). ceremonial county and unitary authority in England
an island in Indonesia in the Malay Archipelago; the largest and most eastern of the Lesser Sunda Islands. island at the southern end of Maritime Southeast Asia
United States manufacturer of automobiles who pioneered mass production (1863-1947). American captain of industry and a business magnate
the capital of Tajikistan; formerly Stalinabad 1926-1991. capital of Tajikistan
American painter who did portraits of Paul Revere and John Hancock before fleeing to England to avoid the American Revolution (1738-1815). American-born painter
a seashore of the Gulf of Mexico. eastern coastline of Mexico
English writer and lexicographer (1709-1784). English poet, biographer, essayist, lexicographer
(Greek mythology) the winged goddess of the dawn in ancient mythology; daughter of Hyperion; identified with Roman Aurora. Greek goddess of the dawn
English biochemist (born in Austria); studied the molecular structure of blood (1914-2002). Austrian-born British molecular biologist
a city in northeastern Mexico opposite Brownsville near the mouth of the Rio Grande. City in the northeastern Mexican state of Tamaulipas, across the US border from Brownsville, TX
a later sacred text of Hinduism of a mystical nature dealing with metaphysical questions. Mystical and philosophical texts of Hinduism
Irish prelate who deduced from the Bible that Creation occurred in the year 4004 BC (1581-1656). Archbishop of Armagh
a naval battle of the American Civil War (1862); the indecisive battle between the Monitor and the Merrimac. Pivotal battle in the history of naval warfare
a terrorist group formed in 1983 as the armed wing of the Chilean Communist Party. Marxist-Leninist paramilitary organization in Chile
muckraking United States journalist who exposed bad conditions in mental institutions (1867-1922). American journalist
a city in northwestern Spain at the foot of the Cantabrian Mountains. city in Castile and Le뮁塋, Spain
the capital city of Vietnam; located in North Vietnam. capital of Vietnam
an arm of the Adriatic Sea. bay
a mountain range in northeastern New York State; a popular resort area. mountain range
Holy Roman Emperor and king of Hungary and Bohemia (1503-1564). king of Bohemia and Hungary
an island off southwestern Canada (off the southwestern coast of British Columbia); the largest island off the west coast of North America. island of Canada
a region of eastern South Africa on the Indian Ocean. province of South Africa
a New Testament book containing an epistle from Saint Paul to Philemon asking Philemon to forgive the slave for escaping. book of the Bible
a historical region of Croatia on the Adriatic Sea; mountainous with many islands. Croatian region
a narrow isthmus between the Gulf of Corinth and the Saronic Gulf; a canal crosses the isthmus so that navigation is possible between the gulfs. isthmus
United States chemist who developed an economical method of producing aluminum from bauxite (1863-1914). American chemist
a republic in western Africa on the Gulf of Guinea; one of the most prosperous and politically stable countries in Africa. republic in Africa
an eastern French region rich in iron-ore deposits. cultural region in France
Apache chieftain who raided the white settlers in the Southwest as resistance to being confined to a reservation (1829-1909). leader of the Bedonkohe Apache
from 2,500 to 544 million years ago; bacteria and fungi; primitive multicellular organisms. third eon of the geologic timescale, last eon of the Precambrian Supereon
(Old Testament) a beautiful Jewess chosen by the king of Persia to be his queen; she stopped a plot to massacre all the Jews in Persia (an event celebrated by Jews as the feast of Purim). Biblical queen of Persia
the two promontories at the eastern end of the Strait of Gibraltar; according to legend they were formed by Hercules. name applied in Antiquity to the promontories that flank the entrance to the Strait of Gibraltar
son of John Cabot who was born in Italy and who led an English expedition in search of the Northwest Passage and a Spanish expedition that explored the La Plata region of Brazil; in 1544 he published a map of the world (1476-1557). explorer, born in the Venetian Republic
United States songwriter noted for his protest songs (born in 1941). American singer-songwriter, musician, author, and artist
United States entertainer remembered for her roles in comic operas (1861-1922). American opera singer and actress
a city in southwestern Spain that is famous for making sherry. Municipality in Spain
Egyptian god of tombs and ruler of the underworld; usually depicted as a man with the head of a jackal. Egyptian deity of mummification and the afterlife, usually depicted as a man with a canine head
United States explorer who led three expeditions to the Arctic (1821-1871). American arctic explorer
a waterway used by small boats to travel between the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico through Lake Okeechobee and the Caloosahatchee_Canal and the Caloosahatchee River. canal in Florida, United States of America
Russian mathematician (1856-1922). Russian mathematician
a glacial lake in central New York; the longest of the Finger Lakes. lake in central New York, USA
the Greek goddess of fate who spins the thread of life. one of the Fates of Greek Mythology
United States singer who appeared in several musical comedies (1909-1984). American actress and singer
United States linguist (born in Ukraine) who developed mathematical linguistics and interpreted speech and writing in a social context (1909-1992). American linguist
one of the five boroughs of New York City. borough of New York City, New York, United States
a town in western California to the north of Oakland on an arm of San Francisco Bay. city in Contra Costa County, California, United States
United States educator who was born a slave but became educated and founded a college at Tuskegee in Alabama (1856-1915). African-American educator, author, orator, and advisor
Russian filmmaker (1932-1986). Soviet and Russian film-maker, writer, film editor, film theorist, theatre and opera director
(Greek mythology) the virgin goddess of the hunt and the Moon; daughter of Leto and twin sister of Apollo; identified with Roman Diana. Greek deity
a university in Durham, North Carolina. private university in Durham, North Carolina, United States
United States general in charge of the Union troops at the Battle of Gettysburg (1815-1872). Union Army general
record of a British census and land survey in 1085-1086 ordered by William the Conqueror. manuscript record of the "Great Survey" of much of England and parts of Wales completed in 1086
an industrial town to the east of Harrisburg. census designated place
city on the Rhine in eastern France near the German border; an inland port. commune in Bas-Rhin, France
a city in northern Italy. Italian comune
a French marshal who distinguished himself in the War of the Austrian Succession (1696-1750). Marshal General of France
pope who in 1122 forced the Holy Roman Emperor Henry V to sign a concordat that recognized the right of the church to choose its own leadership (died in 1124). Pope from 1119 to 1124
United States playwright (1892-1967). American writer
United States Jewish leader (born in Hungary) (1874-1949). American rabbi
Greek coloratura soprano (born in the United States) known for her dramatic intensity in operatic roles (1923-1977). American-born Greek operatic soprano
German industrialist who was the first in Germany to use an assembly line in manufacturing automobiles (1871-1948). member of the German Opel family
United States physicist honored for his work on cosmic microwave radiation (born in 1918). American astronomer
a landlocked republic in eastern Africa; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1962. republic in East Africa
English composer influenced by folk tunes and music of the Tudor period (1872-1958). English composer
a Scandinavian kingdom in the eastern part of the Scandinavian Peninsula. constitutional monarchy in Northern Europe
a Mexican state on the Gulf of Campeche. state of Mexico
relational database of the United States National Library of Medicine for the storage and retrieval of bibliographical information concerning the biomedical literature. medical bibliographical database
a mountain in the Himalayas in northern India (25,450 feet high). mountain
English film director noted for his skill in creating suspense (1899-1980). British filmmaker
a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Dorado and Columba. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
an industrial city in northwestern Germany; flourished from the 13th to 17th century as a member of the Hanseatic League. town in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany
a republic in West Africa on the Gulf of Guinea; gained independence from Britain in 1960; most populous African country. federal republic in West Africa
United States psychologist who experimented with psychoactive drugs (including LSD) and became a well-known advocate of their use (1920-1996). American psychologist
an uncertain region on the east shore of the Adriatic where an ancient Indo-European people once lived. classical region in the western part of the Balkan Peninsula
the capital of the Bahamas. capital city of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas
the Balkan countries collectively. geopolitical and cultural region of southeastern Europe
son of Henry Ford (1893-1943). American businessman
a North American river that flows westward from the Yukon Territory through central Alaska to the Bering Sea. river in the Yukon territory of Canada
a wide street in London stretching from Trafalgar Square to the Houses of Parliament; site of many government offices. road in the City of Westminster, in central London
Botswanan statesman who was the first president of Botswana (1921-1980). First President of Botswana
United States writer (born in 1933). American writer and filmmaker, professor, and activist
frontier marshal whose adventures have become legendary (1837-1876). American folk hero and lawman
French philosopher (1909-1943). French philosopher, Christian mystic, and social activist
English author of satirical novels (1903-1966). British writer
a region in Finland and Russia between the Gulf of Finland and the White Sea. area in Northern Europe
British newspaper publisher (1865-1922). British noble
English biologist noted for studies of the molecular structure of blood components (born in 1917). English biochemist and crystallographer
made the first orbital rocket-powered flight by a United States astronaut in 1962; later in United States Senate (1921-). American astronaut and politician
a Mexican city on the Bay of Campeche. capital city of the Mexican state of Campeche
Palestinian rabbi and interpreter of Judaic law. Rabbi and nasi.
national capital of Kiribati. atoll in the central Pacific Ocean
United States prizefighter who was world heavyweight champion (born in 1966). American boxer
a river in southwestern Alabama; flows into Mobile Bay. river in the United States of America
a state in northwestern United States on the Pacific. state of the United States of America
a town in southwestern British Columbia on Vancouver Island to the west of Vancouver. city on Vancouver Island in British Columbia, Canada
Canadian filmmaker (born in 1926). director, producer, and actor
a city in north central Utah settled by Mormons. city in and the county seat of Utah County, Utah, United States
the state capital and largest city of Colorado; located in central Colorado on the South Platte river. capital city of the state of Colorado, United States; consolidated city and county
(Roman mythology) Roman spelling for Odysseus. legendary Greek king of Ithaca
a group of about 90 islands in the western Indian Ocean to the north of Madagascar. island country to the East of Africa
American inventor who in 1775 designed a man-propelled submarine that was ineffectual but subsequently earned him recognition as a submarine pioneer (1742-1824). American inventor
evil spirit to whom Faust sold his soul. demon
Roman martyr; supposedly Lawrence was ordered by the police to give up the church's treasure and when he responded by presenting the poor people of Rome he was roasted to death on a gridiron (died in 258). Christian saint, martyr and deacon of ancient Rome
an island comprising the republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. island in north-west Europe, politically divided into the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland
the brightest asteroid but the fourth to be discovered. second largest asteroid of the main asteroid belt
islands in the Svalbard archipelago to the east of northern Greenland; belonging to Norway. largest island of the Svalbard archipelago
port city in northwestern Belgium and industrial center; famous for cloth industry. city in East Flanders, Belgium
English landscape painter (1776-1837). English painter
a river in northern California. river in California
Swiss hotelier who created a chain of elegant hotels (1850-1918). Swiss hotelier
a belt of charged particles (resulting from cosmic rays) above the Earth trapped by the Earth's magnetic field. zone of energetic charged particles around the planet earth
a university in Rhode Island. University in Providence, Rhode Island
Italian monk who founded the Benedictine order about 540 (480-547). Christian saint and monk
the Shoshone guide and interpreter who guided the Lewis and Clark expedition part of the way. Lemhi Shoshone woman who helped the Lewis and Clark Expedition
(Greek mythology) the goddess of divine retribution and vengeance. Goddess of Greek mythology
a city in western Germany on the Rhine River; was the capital of West Germany between 1949 and 1989. city in Germany, former capital
the French-speaking capital of the province of Quebec; situated on the Saint Lawrence River. capital city of Quebec Province, Canada
United States feminist (1860-1935). American feminist, writer, commercial artist, lecturer and social reformer
English physicist who experimented with the conduction of electricity through gases and who discovered the electron and determined its charge and mass (1856-1940). British physicist
Irish writer and wit (1854-1900). Irish writer and poet
a river in northeastern Brazil that flows generally northward to the Atlantic Ocean. municipality of Brazil
United States film actor (born in 1925). American actor and film director
the capital of Ethiopia and the country's largest city; located in central Ethiopia. capital city of Ethiopia
king of ancient Macedonia whose confrontations with the Romans led to his defeat and his loss of control over Greece. king of Macedon
Spanish poet and dramatist who was shot dead by Franco's soldiers soon after the start of the Spanish Civil War (1898-1936). Spanish poet, dramatist and theatre director
a mountainous region in central Italy. region of Italy
Dutch astronomer who calculated the size of the universe and suggested that it is expanding (1872-1934). Dutch cosmologist
a geographical area of fertile land in the Middle East stretching in a broad semicircle from the Nile to the Tigris and Euphrates. crescent-shaped region containing the moist and fertile land of Western Asia, and the Nile Valley and Nile Delta of northeast Africa
a city in west central Mexico. city and municipality in Mexico
a republic in southeastern Europe on the southern part of the Balkan peninsula; known for grapes and olives and olive oil. republic in Southeast Europe
courtier and influential mistress of Louis XV who was guillotined during the French Revolution (1743-1793). mistress of Louis XV
a town in northern Mexico on the border of Arizona. city in Sonora
the region of northwestern Italy; includes the Po valley. region in North-West Italy
an industrial suburb of Buenos Aires. human settlement in Argentina
(Roman Catholic Church) a church father known for his constant fight against perceived heresies; a saint and Doctor of the Church (329-391). Christian saint, bishop, and theologian
a constellation outside the zodiac that rotates around the North Star. constellation visible throughout the year in most of the northern hemisphere
United States educator famous for writing a book about how to win friends and influence people (1888-1955). American writer and lecturer
English mathematician who conceived of the Turing machine and broke German codes during World War II (1912-1954). British mathematician, logician, cryptanalyst, and computer scientist
the first decisive battle of the Hundred Years' War; in 1346 the English under Edward III defeated the French under Philip of Valois. battle of the Hundred Years' War
English poet and theologian (1674-1748). English hymnwriter, theologian and logician
English theoretical physicist (born in 1942). British theoretical physicist, cosmologist, and author
a tributary of the Mississippi River that flows eastward from Texas along the southern boundary of Oklahoma and through Louisiana. major tributary of the Mississippi and Atchafalaya rivers in the southern United States
French composer of romantic works (1803-1869). French Romantic composer
a small town near Jerusalem on the West Bank of the Jordan River; early home of David and regarded as the place where Jesus was born. city in West Bank, Palestine
archaic name for England or Great Britain; used poetically. ancient name for the island of Great Britain
a river in Missouri that is a tributary of the Missouri River. one of the larger rivers in Missouri
United States filmmaker (born in Austria) whose dark humor infused many of the films he made (1906-2002). American filmmaker
a book of the Old Testament that tells the history of Israel under the leaders known as judges. seventh book of the Bible
an island in the eastern Mediterranean. island country in the Eastern Mediterranean
a city of eastern New York on the Mohawk river; it prospered after the opening of the Erie Canal. county seat of Schenectady County, New York, United States
a town in southwest Florida. county seat of Lee County, Florida, United States
Chilean poet (1904-1973). Chilean poet, diplomat, politician
an unabridged dictionary constructed on historical principles. premier British dictionary of the English language
(Roman mythology) god of woods and fields and flocks; Pan is the Greek counterpart. deity
a short river flowing from Lake St. Clair to Lake Erie along the border between the United States and Canada; one the busiest inland waterways in the world. river
German bacteriologist who isolated the anthrax bacillus and the tubercle bacillus and the cholera bacillus (1843-1910). German physician and bacteriologist
French writer who collaborated with his brother Jules de Goncourt on many books and who in his will established the Prix Goncourt (1822-1896). French writer
a region of France on the island of Corsica; birthplace of Napoleon Bonaparte. territorial collectivity of France
Scottish author noted for his biography of Samuel Johnson (1740-1795). Scottish lawyer, diarist and author
a broad indentation of the Gulf of Guinea in western Africa. bay
the third of three divisions of the Hebrew Scriptures. third and final section of the Tanakh
United States anarchist influential before World War I (1854-1939). American journalist and anarchist
a state of northeastern India. Indian state
United States actor (born in Ireland); father of Georgiana Emma Barrymore (1827-1862). Irish-American actor and theatre manager
a republic on the Philippine Islands; achieved independence from the United States in 1946. republic in Southeast Asia
a resort city in Crimea in the southern Ukraine on the Black Sea; site of the Allied conference between Roosevelt, Stalin, and Churchill in February 1945. town in Crimea
United States tennis player who was the first Black woman player to win all the major world singles titles (1927-2003). American tennis player
a city in east central China; the capital of ancient China during several dynasties. prefecture-level city in Henan, China
a region of southwestern France between Bordeaux and the Pyrenees. Roman province
King of England who was renounced by Northumbria in favor of his brother Edgar (died in 959). King of the English
a walled city in southeastern China on the Gan Jiang. capital of Jiangxi province, China
United States naturalist (born in England) who advocated the creation of national parks (1838-1914). Scottish-born American naturalist and author
Portuguese navigator who led an expedition around the Cape of Good Hope in 1497; he sighted and named Natal on Christmas Day before crossing the Indian Ocean (1469-1524). Portuguese explorer
English lexicographer remembered for his Italian and English dictionary (1553-1625). English linguist and lexicographer
a river in far eastern Siberia that flows generally northward to the Arctic Ocean. river in Russia
English philosopher and economist remembered for his interpretations of empiricism and utilitarianism (1806-1873). British philosopher and political economist
United States author of inspirational adventure stories for boys; virtue and hard work overcome poverty (1832-1899). novelist
a New Testament book describing the development of the early church from Christ's Ascension to Paul's sojourn at Rome. Book of the New Testament
a region of central Spain; a former kingdom that comprised most of modern Spain and united with Aragon to form Spain in 1479. Spanish historical region
second part of the Stone Age beginning about 750,00 to 500,000 years BC and lasting until the end of the last ice age about 8,500 years BC. prehistoric period, first part of the Stone Age
(Old Testament) an Israelite prophet who is remembered for his angry lamentations (jeremiads) about the wickedness of his people (circa 626-587 BC). Biblical prophet
United States prizefighter who won the world heavyweight championship three times (born in 1942). American boxer, philanthropist and activist
a bay of the North Atlantic on the west coast of Ireland. bay
(Old Testament) the second wife of Jacob and mother of Joseph and Benjamin. Biblical matriarch
Spanish dramatist who wrote the first dramatic treatment of the legend of Don Juan (1571-1648). Spanish writer
a state in northwestern North America; the 49th state admitted to the union. state of the United States of America
French impressionist painter (1841-1919). French painter and sculptor
prolific Flemish baroque painter; knighted by the English king Charles I (1577-1640). Flemish painter
the part of the Earth's surface between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn; characterized by a hot climate. region of the Earth surrounding the Equator
an ancient region on the coast of southwest Asia Minor. geopolitical region in Anatolia
outstanding United States athlete (1914-1956). American golfer and athlete
an island of central Hawaii (between Molokai and Kauai); the chief island of the state. island of Hawaii, United States
Florentine sculptor famous for his lifelike sculptures (1386-1466). Italian painter and sculptor
United States writer of caustic wit (1842-1914). American editorialist, journalist, short story writer, fabulist, and satirist
the regions to the north of the Arctic Circle centered on the North Pole. polar region on the Earth's northern hemisphere
French pope from 1088 to 1099 whose sermons called for the First Crusade (1042-1099). pope (1088-1099)
French composer best known for his operas (1838-1875). French composer
a mountainous republic in central Europe; under the Habsburgs (1278-1918) Austria maintained control of the Holy Roman Empire and was a leader in European politics until the 19th century. federal republic in western-central Europe
French painter (1868-1940). French painter
Swiss mathematician (1667-1748). Swiss mathematician
a mountain in the Andes on the border between Argentina and Chile (22,057 feet high). volcano
largest city in Nebraska; located in eastern Nebraska on the Missouri river; a major transportation center of the Midwest. county seat of Douglas County, Nebraska, United States
English dramatist and actor and composer noted for his witty and sophisticated comedies (1899-1973). English playwright, composer, director, actor and singer
German physicist (1882-1974). German physicist
King of Great Britain and Ireland from 1760 to 1820; the American colonies were lost during his reign; he became insane in 1811 and his son (later George IV) acted as regent until 1820 (1738-1820). King of Great Britain and King of Ireland
from 13 million to 2 million years ago; growth of mountains; cooling of climate; more and larger mammals. second epoch of the Neogene Period
English archaeologist who supervised the excavations at Ur (1880-1960). British archaeologist
a city of southeastern Brazil (northwest of Sao Paulo). city in Brazil
United States singer (born in Russia) who appeared in the first full-length talking film (1886-1950). musical
a republic consisting of 26 of 32 counties comprising the island of Ireland; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1921. republic covering major parts of the island of Ireland
English courtier (a favorite of Elizabeth I) who tried to colonize Virginia; introduced potatoes and tobacco to England (1552-1618). English aristocrat, writer, poet, soldier, courtier, spy, and explorer
incomplete skeleton of female found in eastern Ethiopia in 1974. common name for several hundred pieces of bone representing about 40% of the skeleton of an individual Australopithecus afarensis, discovered in Ethiopia in 1974
a constellation in the southern hemisphere near the south celestial pole. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
(archeology) a period between the Stone and Iron Ages, characterized by the manufacture and use of bronze tools and weapons. prehistoric period and age studied in archaeology, part of the Holocene Epoch
a European river; flows into the Baltic Sea. river in Eastern Europe
a large semiarid plateau forming the southern part of the Great Plains. southwestern united states in New Mexico
a city on the Loire river in north central France; site of the siege of Orleans by the English (1428-1429). city in north-central France
a chain of more than 200 islands about 400 miles long in the western central Pacific Ocean. republic in Oceania
United States chemist noted for discovering the series of chemical reactions in photosynthesis (1911-). American chemist
Brazilian composer (1887-1959). Brazilian composer
a phonetician and father of Alexander Graham Bell (1819-1905). British linguist
the Teutonic god of thunder; counterpart of Norse Thor. hammer-wielding Nordic god associated with thunder, lightning, storms, oaks, strength, and fertility
a faint constellation in the southern hemisphere near Phoenix and Cetus. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
the capital and largest city of Bavaria in southwestern Germany. city in Bavaria, Germany
a town in southeastern France on the Rhone River; the seat of the papacy from 1309 to 1378 and the residence of antipopes during the Great Schism. commune in Vaucluse, France
the period of history between classical antiquity and the Italian Renaissance. the period of European history encompassing the 5th to the 15th centuries
a republic on the Seychelles islands; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1976. island country to the East of Africa
the historic period (1793-94) during the French Revolution when thousands were executed. Period during the French Revolution
English lexicographer who was a joint editor of the Oxford English Dictionary (1872-1966). Scottish philologist and lexicographer
United States pragmatic philosopher who advocated progressive education (1859-1952). American philosopher, psychologist, and educational reformer
Italian pope from 1958 to 1963 who convoked the Second Vatican Council (1881-1963). 261st Pope of the Catholic Church
United States filmmaker whose works include the first full-length feature film with sound sequences (1902-1979). American film producer
United States aviator who held several speed records and headed the women's Air Force pilots in World War II (1910-1980). American aviator and businesswoman
Christian martyr and patron of those who suffer from epilepsy and Sydenham's chorea (died around 300). Sicilian saint
United States film actress (1908-1977). American actress
a retreat to the northwest of Washington that is used by the president of the United States. country retreat of the President of the United States
a city in south central Canada in Ontario; a major nickel mining center. city in northern Ontario, Canada
Canadian writer (born in England) who wrote about life in the Yukon Territory (1874-1958). Canadian poet
German physicist who was the first to produce electromagnetic waves artificially (1857-1894). German physicist
German classical scholar who claimed that the Iliad and Odyssey were composed by several authors (1759-1824). German philologist
the capital and largest city of Poland; located in central Poland. capital and largest city of Poland
mountains in southwestern South Dakota and northeastern Wyoming; sacred to the Sioux (whites settling in the Black Hills led to the Battle of Little Bighorn); site of Mount Rushmore. mountain range in South Dakota and Wyoming
(Roman Catholic Church) Anglo-Saxon missionary who was sent to Frisia and Germany to spread the Christian faith; was martyred in Frisia (680-754). missionary who propagated Christianity in the Frankish Empire
a national park in the Virgin Islands having tropical plants and animals; sandy beaches and coral reefs. United States national park in the US Virgin Islands territory and former biosphere reserve (1976-2017)
the capital of Croatia. capital city of Croatia
United States sociologist (1909-2002). American Sociologist
a city of central China on the Chang Jiang; the commercial and industrial center of central China. capital city of Hubei Province, China
the longest river in England; flows eastward through London to the North Sea. river in southern England
United States architect (born in Finland) (1910-1961). Finnish American architect (1910뼰1961)
a river in Illinois that flows southwest to the Mississippi River. Illinois tributary of the Mississippi River in the United States
a city in south central Mexico (southeast of Mexico City) on the edge of central Mexican plateau. capital of the Mexican state of Puebla
the capital of Australia; located in southeastern Australia. capital of Australia
United States writer noted for her sharp wit (1893-1967). American poet, short story writer, critic and satirist
a popular tourist area in northwestern England including England's largest lake and highest mountain. mountainous region in North West England
a city in southwestern California to the east of Los Angeles. city in Los Angeles County, California, United States
a mountain peak in the St. Elias Range in the southwestern Yukon Territory in Canada (19,850 feet high). mountain
a river in eastern Texas that flows south into the Gulf of Mexico. river in the United States of America
a large plateau to the south and west of the Rocky Mountains; abuts mountains on the north and east and ends in an escarpment overlooking lowlands to the south and west; the Grand Canyon is carved out of the southwestern corner. plateau in the southwestern United States
an arm of the Atlantic to the south of the United States and to the east of Mexico. ocean basin in North America
16th President of the United States; saved the Union during the American Civil War and emancipated the slaves; was assassinated by Booth (1809-1865). 16th President of the United States
English poet best remembered for love sonnets written to her husband Robert Browning (1806-1861). English poet, author
German physiologist who studied sensory responses to stimuli and is considered the father of psychophysics (1795-1878). German psychologist
Swedish soprano who toured the United States under the management of P. T. Barnum (1820-1887). Swedish classical singer
a 450-mile line that is supposed to indicate the boundary between the part of Kashmir controlled by India and the part controlled by Pakistan. demarcation line between India and Pakistan over the disputed region of Kashmir
the boundary between Maryland and Pennsylvania; symbolic dividing line between North and South before the American Civil War. surveyed border line between U.S. states of Delaware, Maryland, and Pennsylvania
English rock star (born in 1943). British songwriter, singer of The Rolling Stones
a city in eastern Spain on the Mediterranean. city in Spain
a major battle in the American Civil War (1863); the Confederates under Robert E. Lee defeated the Union forces under Joseph Hooker. major battle of the American Civil War
an island in the western Pacific between Guam and Hawaii. coral atoll in the North Pacific Ocean
French composer (born in Italy) who was the court composer to Louis XIV and founded the national French opera (1632-1687). Italian-born French composer
a river that rises in France and flows northeast across Belgium and empties into the North Sea. river in France, Belgium and the Netherlands
United States sculptor and architect whose public works include the memorial to veterans of the Vietnam War in Washington (born in 1959). American architect and artist
United States evangelist (1862-1935). American evangelist and baseball player
island nation in the South Atlantic off the west coast of Africa; achieved independence from Portugal in 1975; has enormous offshore oil reserves. country in Africa
Libyan leader who seized power in a military coup d'etat in 1969; deposed the Libyan monarchy and imposed socialism and Islamic orthodoxy on the country (born in 1942). Libyan revolutionary, politician and political theorist
Italian pope from 1566 to 1572 who led the reformation of the Roman Catholic Church; he excommunicated Elizabeth I (1504-1572). pope
the capital of Pakistan in the north on a plateau; the site was chosen in 1959. capital city of Pakistan
a bishop in Asia Minor who is associated with Santa Claus (4th century). 4th-century Christian saint
United States dancer and choreographer who collaborated with Ted Shawn (1877-1968). American dancer
the southern states that seceded from the United States in 1861. (de facto) federal republic in North America from 1861 to 1865
a town in central Kansas. city in Kansas, United States
the capital of Western Samoa. capital of Samoa
French writer who collected Aesop's fables and published them (1621-1695). French poet, fabulist and writer
a city in western New York; a center of the photographic equipment industry. county seat of Monroe County, New York, United States
a city in Uganda on the north shore of Lake Victoria. town in Uganda
fashion designer born in Italy who was noted for her use of synthetic materials and brilliant colors (1896-1973). Italian fashion designer and couturier
Italian painter (1696-1770). Italian painter
Indian statesman who was the founder of Pakistan as a Muslim state (1876-1948). Founder and 1st Governor General of Pakistan
United States athlete who won Olympic gold medals in the decathlon (born in 1930). American decathlete
British physicist who (with Ernest Walton in 1931) first split an atom (1897-1967). British physicist
a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Telescopium and Norma. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
United States motion-picture pioneer remembered for his pictures of running horses taken with a series of still cameras (born in England) (1830-1904). English-American photographer
a city on the River Thames in Berkshire in southern England. town in the county of Berkshire in England
a boulder in Plymouth supposed to be where the Pilgrims disembarked from the Mayflower. Historical important rock in Plymouth, Massachusetts, USA
the victory in 1757 by the British under Clive over Siraj-ud-daula that established British supremacy over Bengal. 1757 battle of the Seven Years' War vedio
chief god of the Assyrians; god of military prowess and empire; identified with Babylonian Anshar. mesopotamian deity
a city and manufacturing center in southwestern Massachusetts on the Connecticut River. county seat of Hampden County, Massachusetts, United States
English theologian (1554-1600). English bishop and Anglican Divine
Hindu god of wisdom or prophecy; the god who removes obstacles. Hindu deity
the friend of Phintias who pledged his life that Phintias would return (4th century BC). mythical characters
United States singer and film actress (1922-1969). American actress, singer and vaudevillian
the part of Berlin under United States and British and French control until 1989. political enclave that existed between 1949 and 1990
a volcano in southwestern Italy on the Mediterranean coast; a Plinian eruption in 79 AD buried Pompeii and killed Pliny the Elder; last erupted in 1944. stratovolcano in the Gulf of Naples, Italy
United States electrical engineer noted for his work on the theory of alternating currents; independently of Oliver Heaviside he discovered the existence of an atmospheric layer that reflects radio waves back to earth (1861-1939). American electrical engineer
a New Testament book containing an exposition of the doctrines of Saint Paul; written in AD 58. book of the Bible
English businessman who created a retail chain (1888-1964). British businessman
English writer (born in Scotland) of children's stories (1859-1932). British novelist
German pianist and composer of piano music; renowned for her interpretation of music, especially the music of her husband Robert Schumann (1819-1896). German musician and composer
a city in southwestern Switzerland at the western end of Lake Geneva; it is the headquarters of various international organizations. city in Switzerland and capital of its canton
important Russian composer whose works are noted for their expressive melodies (1840-1893). Russian composer
a port city in southern Ireland; famous for glass industry. city in the Republic of Ireland
French physicist who determined the speed of light and showed that it travels slower in water than in air; invented the Foucault pendulum and the gyroscope (1819-1868). French physicist
English writer of satirical novels (1917-1993). English writer
Danish pediatrician (1830-1916). Danish physician
United States writer who lived in Europe; strongly influenced the development of modern literature (1885-1972). American poet and critic
group of islands in the central Philippines. one of the three island groups of the Philippines
English navigator who explored the Arctic while searching for the Northwest Passage (1550-1605). one of the chief English navigators and explorers under Elizabeth I
(archeology) the earliest known period of human culture, characterized by the use of stone implements. broad prehistoric period during which stone was widely used to make implements
English poet (1621-1678). English metaphysical poet and politician
the main city of ancient Phoenicia. city in Lebanon
United States sculptor (born in Lithuania) who pioneered cubist sculpture (1891-1973). American and French sculptor
German historian noted for his critical approach to sources and for his history of Rome (1776-1831). Danish-German statesman and historian
United States psychiatrist who with his sons founded a famous psychiatric clinic in Topeka (1862-1953). American physician
German expressionist painter (1880-1938). German painter, sculptor, engraver and printmaker
United States film actress and daughter of Henry Fonda (born in 1937). American actress and activist
a North American river; rises in southwestern Canada and flows southward across Washington to form the border between Washington and Oregon before emptying into the Pacific; known for its salmon runs in the spring. river in North America; flows from British Columbia, through Washington, and along the Washington뼰깺壤둹egon border to the Pacific Ocean
an extinct volcano in southern Mexico between Mexico City and Veracruz; the highest peak in Mexico (18,695 feet). mountain
a state of Uganda and site of a former Bantu kingdom. subnational kingdom within Uganda
French biochemist who (with Jacques Monod) studied regulatory processes in cells (born in 1920). French biologist
either of two small galaxies orbiting the Milky Way; visible near the south celestial pole. two irregular dwarf galaxies orbiting the Milky Way galaxy within the Local Galactic Group
islands in the Atlantic Ocean belonging to Portugal. autonomous region of Portugal (for the physical geographical feature use Q4058447)
a region of north central France including Paris and the area around it. region in France where the French capital Paris is located
the female or generative principle; wife of Siva and a benevolent form of Devi. Goddess, energy or power in Hinduism
United States cartoonist whose comic strip included the beagle Snoopy (1922-2000). American cartoonist
a cape of northwestern Washington. landform
the legendary hero of an anonymous Old English epic poem composed in the early 8th century; he slays a monster and becomes king but dies fighting a dragon. Old English heroic epic poem
an oath taken by physicians to observe medical ethics deriving from Hippocrates. physicians' oath
United States operatic tenor (born in Denmark) noted for his Wagnerian roles (1890-1973). Danish opera singer
a city in east-central France on the Rhone River; a principal producer of silk and rayon. commune in the metropolis of Lyon, France
United States philosopher and logician; pioneer of pragmatism (1839-1914). American philosopher, logician, mathematician, and scientist
mother of the ancient Irish gods; sometimes identified with Danu. deity
a peninsula of southeastern Asia that includes Myanmar and Cambodia and Laos and Malaysia and Thailand and Vietnam. peninsula
German publisher of a series of travel guidebooks (1801-1859). German publisher
Italian antipope from 1080 to 1100 who was installed as pope by the Holy Roman Emperor Henry IV who consistently opposed efforts at papal reform (died in 1100). pope
English dramatist (1558-1594). English dramatist
a city in southwestern England in Gloucestershire on the Severn. city and county town of Gloucestershire, United Kingdom
Soviet physicist who worked on low temperature physics (1908-1968). Soviet physicist
English poet (1844-1889). English poet
a town on the Snake River in south central Idaho near the Twin Falls. city in Twin Falls County, Idaho, United States
a city in south central California in the San Joaquin Valley; center of an important agricultural area and gateway to the Sierra Nevada Mountains. county seat of Fresno County, California, United States
a city in southeastern Cuba; site of a United States naval base. capital of Guant뭼折뢠mo Province, Cuba
a river in the northeastern United States that rises in New York and flows southward through Pennsylvania and Maryland into Chesapeake Bay. river in the northeastern United States
the legendary patron saint of children; an imaginary being who is thought to bring presents to children at Christmas. Folkloric personification of Christmas in several English뼰깺餓쯲eaking parts of the world
Canadian physiologist (born in the United States) who assisted F. G. Banting in research leading to the discovery of insulin (1899-1978). medical scientist, co-discoverer of insulin
a river in southern Scotland that flows eastward to the Firth of Forth. river in Australia
(Roman Catholic Church) the bishop of Caesarea who defended the Roman Catholic Church against the heresies of the 4th century; a saint and Doctor of the Church (329-379). Christian Saint
English statesman and philosopher; precursor of British empiricism; advocated inductive reasoning (1561-1626). English philosopher, statesman, scientist, jurist, and author
a disciple of Saint Paul who became the leader of the Christian community at Ephesus. saint and bishop
a major geological fault in California; runs from San Diego to San Francisco; the source of serious earthquakes. geological fault
Australian writer (1912-1990). English-born Australian writer
United States mathematician (1880-1960). American mathematician
Spanish philosopher (1235-1315). Majorcan writer and philosopher
United States comedian and film actor (1880-1946). American comedian and actor
a book in the Old Testament that tells the story of Jonah and the whale. book of the Bible
Dutch physicist noted for work on electromagnetic theory (1853-1928). Dutch physicist
German mathematician (1862-1943). German mathematician
(Old Testment) a son of Jacob and forefather of one of the tribes of Israel. eldest son of Jacob with Leah, in the Bible
United States writer of western adventure novels (1875-1939). American novelist
capital of the state of Nevada; located in western Nevada. capital city of the state of Nevada, United States
a republic in northwestern South America with a coastline on the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea; achieved independence from Spain in 1821 under the leadership of Simon Bolivar; Spanish is the official language. country in South America
English writer of novels about moral dilemmas in academe (1905-1980). British writer
(archeology) the period following the Bronze Age; characterized by rapid spread of iron tools and weapons. archaeological period
a Hebrew minor prophet of the late 7th century BC. person in the bible
United States golfer (born in 1929). American golfer
latest part of the Stone Age beginning about 10,000 BC in the Middle East (but later elsewhere). archaeological period, last part of the Stone Age
United States poet (1883-1963). American poet
the chief port and second largest city of Chile; located on a wide harbor in central Chile. Chilean municipality
United States physicist (born in China) who collaborated with Tsung Dao Lee in disproving the principle of conservation of parity (born in 1922). Chinese physicist
a town in southeastern Wisconsin. city in Wisconsin, USA
a strait of the English Channel between the coast of Hampshire and the Isle of Wight. strait separating the Isle of Wight from the mainland of England
a city in western Tanzania. city
the countries of (originally) Europe and (now including) North America and South America. countries that identify themselves with an originally European뼰깺븗ince the Cold War, US American뼰깺븗hared culture
(Greek mythology) the mythical Greek king who for 30 years did not clean his stables which contained his vast herd of cattle. mythical character
Dutch botanist who rediscovered Mendel's laws and developed the mutation theory of evolution (1848-1935). Dutch botanist
a mountain range in eastern California; contains Mount Whitney. mountain range in California, United States
a mountain in south central Alaska; the highest peak in North America (20,300 feet high). North America's highest mountain
one of the British Isles in the Irish Sea. British Crown dependency
(Greek mythology) the priestess of Apollo at Delphi who transmitted the oracles. priestess of the Temple of Apollo at Delphi
(Greek mythology) the priest of Apollo who warned the Trojans to beware of Greeks bearing gifts when they wanted to accept the Trojan Horse; a god who favored the Greeks (Poseidon or Athena) sent snakes who coiled around Laocoon and his two twin sons killing them. figure in Greek and Roman mythology
Soviet cosmonaut who was the first woman in space (born in 1937). Russian cosmonaut, first woman to have flown in space
English writer (1864-1926). British writer
a town in Czech Republic; site of the battle of Austerlitz in 1805. town in the Czech Republic
Tennessee highschool teacher who violated a state law by teaching evolution; in a highly publicized trial in 1925 he was prosecuted by William Jennings Bryan and defended by Clarence Darrow (1900-1970). American schoolteacher
leader of the Oglala who resisted the development of a trail through Wyoming and Montana by the United States government (1822-1909). Chief of Oglala Lakota
a town in southeast Florida on the mainland opposite Palm Beach; founded as a commercial center for Palm Beach. county seat of Palm Beach County, Florida, United States
an arm of the Atlantic Ocean that forms a channel between France and Britain. arm of the Atlantic Ocean that separates southern England from northern France
a city in northwestern Afghanistan on the site of several ancient cities. capital of Herat Province, Afghanistan
a river flowing southwest from Oregon through northern California to the Pacific Ocean. river in northern California and Oregon, United States
a volcanic island in the Windward Isles to the south of Martinique. country in the Caribbean
a former state in East Africa; united with Zanzibar in 1964 to form Tanzania. country in East Africa from 1961 to 1964
Roman statesman and philosopher who was an advisor to Nero; his nine extant tragedies are modeled on Greek tragedies (circa 4 BC - 65 AD). Roman Stoic philosopher, statesman, and dramatist
English stage and screen actor noted for versatility (1914-2000). British actor
French composer of serial music (born in 1925). French composer, conductor, writer, and pianist
a cantilever bridge across the East River between Manhattan and Queens. bridge in New York City
the capital and largest city of Kenya; a center for tourist safaris. capital city of Kenya
a Flemish surgeon who is considered the father of modern anatomy (1514-1564). early anatomist
an ancient region of southern Greece in the southeastern Peloponnesus; dominated by Sparta. regional unit of Greece
Dutch Protestant theologian who founded Arminianism which opposed the absolute predestinarianism of John Calvin (1559-1609). Dutch theologian, inspirator of Arminianism, champion of tolerance
a large rigid dirigible designed to carry passengers or bombs. airship type
a town in northern Maryland. city in Maryland, United States
a free, widely-used Web Map Server. American free online web mapping service owned by Verizon
a port city in western Turkey. city in Turkey
Italian educator who developed a method of teaching mentally handicapped children and advocated a child-centered approach (1870-1952). Italian pedagogue, philosopher and physician
grand duke of Muscovy whose victories against the Tartars laid the basis for Russian unity (1440-1505). Grand Prince of Moscow
French writer who was the embodiment of 18th century Enlightenment (1694-1778). French writer, historian, and philosopher
a small constellation in the southern hemisphere near Ara. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
United States filmmaker (1902-1981). American film director, producer and screenwriter
an ancient Greek astronomer who was one of the first to propose a heliocentric theory of the universe (circa 270 BC). ancient Greek astronomer and mathematician
a geographical area in central New York State that is named for a series of narrow glacial lakes that lie parallel in a north-south direction. group of lakes in New York, USA
an art museum that is a famous tourist attraction in Paris. art and archeology museum in Paris, France
the king of Egypt who founded the Macedonian dynasty in Egypt; a close friend and general of Alexander the Great who took charge of Egypt after Alexander died (circa 367-285 BC). Macedonian general
an autonomous province in far northwestern China on the border with Mongolia and Kazakhstan; the largest province in the People's Republic of China and the homeland of the Uighur people. autonomous region in China
Greek sculptor (4th century BC). Greek sculptor of the 4th century BC
the musician in a novel by George du Maurier who controls Trilby's singing hypnotically. fictional character
a small planet and the farthest known planet from the sun; it has the most elliptical orbit of all the planets. dwarf planet in the Solar System
a group of islands in the Pacific off South America; owned by Ecuador; known for unusual animal life. archipelago in the Pacific Ocean
German industrialist who manufactured steel in Essen (1787-1826). German manufacturer and politician
the largest of the islands comprising Antigua and Barbuda. island in Antigua and Barbuda
a war fought between Iraq and a coalition led by the United States that freed Kuwait from Iraqi invaders; 1990-1991. 1990뼰1991 war between Iraq and Coalition Forces
daughter of Henry VIII and Catherine of Aragon who was Queen of England from 1553 to 1558; she was the wife of Philip II of Spain and when she restored Roman Catholicism to England many Protestants were burned at the stake as heretics (1516-1558). Queen of England and Ireland
a mountain in the Andes in Argentina (22,047 feet high). mountain in Argentina
English actress noted for her performances in Shakespearean roles (1755-1831). Welsh actress
a global treaty banning the production or acquisition or stockpiling or transfer or use of chemical weapons. international treaty banning chemical weapons
(Old Testament) son of David and king of Israel noted for his wisdom (10th century BC). king of Israel and the son of David
a chain of small islands in French Polynesia. archipelago
the great-grandmother of king David whose story is told in the Book of Ruth in the Old Testament. protagonist of the Book of Ruth in the Hebrew Bible
capital and largest city of the Ukraine; a major manufacturing and transportation center. capital and the largest city of Ukraine
a city of central European Russia; formerly capital of both the Soviet Union and Soviet Russia; since 1991 the capital of the Russian Federation. capital city and the largest city of Russia; separate federal subject of Russia
Swiss writer (born in Germany) whose novels and poems express his interests in eastern spiritual values (1877-1962). German writer
a peninsula in northwestern Russia projecting eastward between the Barents Sea and the White Sea. peninsula in the northwest of Russia
code name for the secret United States project set up in 1942 to develop atomic bombs for use in World War II. research and development project that produced the first atomic bombs
an inland sea in northwestern Turkey; linked to the Black Sea by the Bosporus and linked to the Aegean by the Dardanelles. inland sea, entirely within the borders of Turkey
a national park in Maine showing marine erosion and glaciation; includes seashore and also the highest point on the Atlantic coast. national park in the US state of Maine
a battle in 1745 in which the French army under Marshal Saxe defeated the English army and their allies under the duke of Cumberland. battle
English runner who in 1954 became the first person to run a mile in less than four minutes (born in 1929). English physician and athlete
United States socialist who was a candidate for president six times (1884-1968). American Presbyterian minister and socialist
United States composer (born in Switzerland) who composed symphonies and chamber music and choral music and a piano sonata and an opera (1880-1959). American composer
a port city in southeastern South Carolina. city in South Carolina, United States
painter of the Florentine school; anticipated the move from Byzantine to naturalistic art (1240-1302). Italian painter
influential United States architect (1869-1959). American architect
French statesman (1754-1838). French diplomat
Italian poet (1569-1625). Italian poet
an island at the north end of New York Bay where the borough of Manhattan is located. borough of New York City, New York, United States
a village in southwestern England where cheddar cheese was first made. village and civil parish in Somerset, England
from 310 million to 280 million years ago; warm climate; swampy land. second subperiod of the Carboniferous
(Luke) the canticle of the Virgin Mary (from Luke 1:46 beginning `Magnificat anima mea Dominum'). hymn of Mary in the Christian tradition
Roman general under Julius Caesar in the Gallic wars; repudiated his wife for the Egyptian queen Cleopatra; they were defeated by Octavian at Actium (83-30 BC). Roman politician and general
German physicist and brother of E. H. Weber; noted for his studies of terrestrial magnetism (1804-1891). German physicist
the largest city in Pennsylvania; located in the southeastern part of the state on the Delaware river; site of Independence Hall where the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution were signed; site of the University of Pennsylvania. county seat city in Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania; sixth largest city in the United States by population
the largest asteroid and the first discovered. dwarf planet and largest asteroid of the main asteroid belt
port city in the United Arab Emirates on the Persian Gulf. city in the United Arab Emirates
British physicist (born in Austria) who with Lise Meitner recognized that Otto Hahn had produced a new kind of nuclear reaction which they named nuclear fission; Frisch described the explosive potential of a chain nuclear reaction (1904-1979). Austrian physicist
a Turkish sultanate of southwestern Asia and northeastern Africa and southeastern Europe; created by the Ottoman Turks in the 13th century and lasted until the end of World War I; although initially small it expanded until it superseded the Byzantine Empire. former empire in Southeast Europe, Western Asia and North Africa
the brightest star in Gemini; close to Castor. star in the northern constellation of Gemini
United States chemist (born in Poland) who used quantum mechanics to understand chemical reactions (born in 1937). Nobel laureate organic and inorganic chemist and Holocaust child survivor
a town in the Andes in southern Peru; formerly the capital of the Inca empire. city in Peru
a terrorist organization of Islamic extremists whose violent activities began in 1992; aims to overthrow the secular Algerian regime and replace it with an Islamic state. armed organization
British field marshal (1850-1916). senior British Army officer and colonial administrator
town in eastern Massachusetts near Boston where the first battle of the American Revolution was fought. city in the US state Massachusetts
United States jurist and second chief justice of the United States Supreme Court; he was appointed by George Washington and briefly served as chief justice but was ultimately rejected by the United States Senate (1739-1800). American politician and judge
Italian painter noted for his use of chiaroscuro and perspective (1494-1534). Italian painter of the Parma school of the Italian Renaissance
Hungarian composer and pianist who collected Hungarian folk music; in 1940 he moved to the United States (1881-1945). Hungarian composer and pianist
United States biochemist (born in England) honored for his discovery that some genes contain introns (born in 1943). English biochemist and molecular biologist
English inventor of the spinning jenny (1720-1778). Inventor of the spinning jenny
United States writer (1870-1902). American writer
United States editor (1920-1993). American historian
United States physicist (born in Hungary) who worked on the first atom bomb and the first hydrogen bomb (1908-2003). Hungarian-American nuclear physicist
English psychologist whose studies of twins were later said to have used fabricated data (1883-1971). English educational psychologist
a district in southwestern Manhattan noted for its shops and restaurants and galleries and artist's lofts. neighborhood in Manhattan
a university town in west central Indiana on the Wabash River. city in Indiana, USA
one of the Visayan islands of the central Philippines; important for its fine harbor. city of the Philippines and capital of the province of Cebu
the largest island of the central Ryukyu Islands. island of Japan
a region in central France. former administrative region of France
English novelist and Catholic (1904-1991). English writer, playwright and literary critic
fictional character in a play by George Pitt; a barber who murdered his customers. fictional serial killer barber
the capital of Bermuda. capital of Bermuda
a book written by Sir Thomas More (1516) describing the perfect society on an imaginary island. book by Thomas More
capital city of the Apulia region on the Adriatic coast. Italian city, capital of the Apulia region
a river that flows through central North Carolina and northeastern South Carolina to the Atlantic Ocean. river in North and South Carolina, United States
the most northwestern Hawaiian island (beyond Kauai). island in the United States of America
a palace built in the 17th century for Louis XIV southwest of Paris near the city of Versailles. palace in Versailles, France and location of the Museum of the History of France
United States baseball player (born in 1939). American baseball player
the largest city in Vermont; located in northwestern Vermont on Lake Champlain; site of the University of Vermont. city in Chittenden County, Vermont, United States
a city in southwestern Congo; former name (until 1966) was Luluabourg. city in Kasa?-Occidental, Democratic Republic of the Congo
a lake in north central Africa; fed by the Shari river. lake in Africa
the constellation that includes the southern celestial pole. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere, containing the south celestial pole
a picturesque region of Germany around the Rhine river. historic region of Germany
Greek mathematician and physicist noted for his work in hydrostatics and mechanics and geometry (287-212 BC). Greek mathematician, physicist, engineer, inventor, and astronomer
(Roman mythology) Roman god of war and agriculture; father of Romulus and Remus; counterpart of Greek Ares. Roman god of war, and guardian of agriculture
an island in the Aegean Sea off the west coast of Turkey; belongs to Greece. Greek island situated in the Aegean Sea
the largest of the Solomon Islands; a province of Papua New Guinea. main island of the Autonomous Region of Bougainville of Papua New Guinea
American satirical poet (1750-1831). American poet
father of the Hindu storm gods Marut; controller of nature; sometimes identified with Siva. deity
United States advocate of women's suffrage; in 1872 she was the first woman to run for the United States presidency (1838-1927). American suffragist
the eon following the Hadean time and preceding the Phanerozoic eon; from about 3,800 million years ago until 544 million years ago. supereon dating from Earth's creation about 4600 million years ago to the Cambrian period 541 million years ago
British statesman and leader of the Labour Party who instituted the welfare state in Britain (1883-1967). former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom
a region of northeastern United States comprising Maine and New Hampshire and Vermont and Massachusetts and Rhode Island and Connecticut. geographical region in the northeastern United States
United States novelist (1871-1945). Novelist, journalist
the conqueror of Turkey who founded the Ottoman Empire and the Ottoman dynasty that ruled Turkey after the 13th century; conquered most of Asia Minor and assumed the title of emir in 1299 (1259-1326). Ottoman sultan
United States artist famous for painting with a drip technique; a leader of abstract expressionism in America (1912-1956). American artist
a town in northwestern Massachusetts. town in Massachusetts
English naturalist (born in Argentina) (1841-1922). British ornithologist
an Egyptian polymath (born in Iraq) whose research in geometry and optics was influential into the 17th century; established experiments as the norm of proof in physics (died in 1040). Arab physicist, mathematician and astronomer
a town in northern New York. town in Jefferson County, New York
United States photographer(1886-1958). American photographer
a fictional mouse created in animated film strips by Walt Disney. Disney cartoon character
United States writer (1834-1902). American writer
a midwestern state on the Great Plains. state of the United States of America
a large peninsula in southeastern Europe containing the Balkan Mountain Range. geopolitical and cultural region of southeastern Europe
(Greek mythology) the Muse of astronomy. muse of astronomy and astrology in Greek mythology
a southeast Australian river; flows westward and then south into the Indian Ocean at Adelaide. river
United States biologist remembered for her opposition to the use of pesticides that were hazardous to wildlife (1907-1964). American marine biologist and conservationist
a war between France and Prussia that ended the Second Empire in France and led to the founding of modern Germany; 1870-1871. significant conflict pitting the Second French Empire against the Kingdom of Prussia and its allies
English engineer who built the first railway locomotive (1771-1833). Cornish inventor, engineer and steam locomotive builder
United States diplomat who was instrumental in opening Japan to foreign trade (1804-1878). American diplomat
English historian who wrote a history of the American revolution and a biography of his uncle Lord Macaulay (1838-1928). British statesman and author
elected vice president and became the 13th President of the United States when Zachary Taylor died in office (1800-1874). American politician, 13th President of the United States (in office from 1850 to 1853)
French poet (flourished around 1460). French poet and criminal
a low-lying region of west central France on the Bay of Biscay. former administrative region of France
Russian writer of plays and novels and short stories; noted for his depiction of social outcasts. Russian and Soviet writer
a part of an inscribed granite stela that was originally about six feet tall and was set up in 196 BC; the inscriptions in hieroglyphics and Demotic and Greek gave the first clues to the decipherment of Egyptian hieroglyphics. ancient Egyptian stele
a lake in the Scottish highlands; the largest body of fresh water in Great Britain. lake in Scotland, United Kingdom
a large territory in northwestern Canada; part is now Nunavut. territory of Canada
a constellation in the northern hemisphere near Andromeda and Pisces. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
the part of west central London containing the main entertainment and shopping areas. area of Central and West London, England
Nazi leader who in 1941 flew a solo flight to Scotland in an apparent attempt to negotiate a peace treaty with Great Britain but was imprisoned for life (1894-1987). German Nazi leader
the brightest star in Auriga. star in the constellation Auriga
a city in southeastern France on the Mediterranean; the leading resort on the French Riviera. city in Alpes-Maritimes, France
the capital of Benin in southwestern part of country on a coastal lagoon. capital of Benin
United States comedian; one of four brothers who made motion pictures together (1890-1977). American comedian
a river in northern California rising near Mount Shasta and flowing south to the San Francisco Bay. river in Northern and Central California, USA
wife of Siva and a benevolent aspect of Devi: Hindu goddess of plenty. Hindu goddess of fertility, motherly love and devotion
French symbolist poet (1844-1896). French poet
a Persian prophet who founded Manichaeism (216-276). prophet and founder of Manichaeism
the southern part of Scotland that is not mountainous. cultural and historic region of Scotland
a planetoid discovered in 2002. Trans-Neptunian object in the Kuiper belt
king of Assyria who invaded Judea twice and defeated Babylon and rebuilt Nineveh after it had been destroyed by Babylonians (died in 681 BC). King of Assyria
an island in Indonesia to the east of Java; striking volcanic scenery; culture is known for elaborate dances and rituals and for handicrafts. province of Indonesia
an Old Testament book consisting of reflections on the vanity of human life; is traditionally attributed to Solomon but probably was written about 250 BC. book of the Bible
son of Henry II and King of England from 1189 to 1199; a leader of the Third Crusade; on his way home from the crusade he was captured and held prisoner in the Holy Roman Empire until England ransomed him in 1194 (1157-1199). English king
a river in western Montana that flows south and east to join the Missouri River. river in the United States of America
a port in western California near the Golden Gate that is one of the major industrial and transportation centers; it has one of the world's finest harbors; site of the Golden Gate Bridge. consolidated city-county in California, United States
English biochemist who did pioneering work that led to the discovery of vitamins (1861-1947). English biochemist
fertility goddess in ancient Greek mythology; wife of Cronus and mother of Zeus; identified with Roman Ops and Cybele of ancient Asia Minor. female Titan in Greek mythology, mother of Zeus and mother of Hera
English writer of historical romances (1803-1873). English novelist, poet, playwright, and politician
the capital of the state of Delaware. city in Kent County, Delaware, United States; state capital of Delaware
the capital and largest city of Greece; named after Athena (its patron goddess). capital city of Greece
German astronomer who first stated laws of planetary motion (1571-1630). German mathematician, astronomer and astrologer
Irish philosopher and Anglican bishop who opposed the materialism of Thomas Hobbes (1685-1753). Anglo-Irish philosopher
French architect (1713-1780). French architect
a socialist manifesto written by Marx and Engels (1842) describing the history of the working-class movement according to their views. 1848 publication written by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels
United States bandleader of a popular big band (1909-1944). American big band musician, arranger, composer, and bandleader
a body of water between Greenland and northeastern Canada; connected with the Arctic Ocean to the north and with the Atlantic Ocean (via the Labrador Sea) to the south; icebound in winter. bay between Greenland and Canada
French writer considered by some to be a founder of the detective novel (1832-1873). French writer
(Greek mythology) the blind prophet of Thebes who revealed to Oedipus that Oedipus had murdered his father and married his mother. mythical character
a constellation in the southern hemisphere between Vela and Canis Major that shaped like the stern of a boat. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
(Hindu mythology) the warrior prince in the Bhagavad-Gita to whom Krishna explains the nature of being and of God and how humans can come to know God. character from Indian epic Mahabharata
an ancient city on the Bosporus founded by the Greeks; site of modern Istanbul; in 330 Constantine I rebuilt the city and called it Constantinople and made it his capital. ancient Greek city
a town in Italy in southwestern Sicily near the coast; the site of six Greek temples. Italian comune
a city in northern India; former capital of the Mogul empire; site of the Taj Mahal. city in Uttar Pradesh, India
United States film maker (1897-1991). Sicilian-born American film director
the bell of Independence Hall; rung 8 July 1776 to announce the signing of the Declaration of Independence. bell that serves as a symbol of American independence and liberty
the territory of an Elector (of the Holy Roman Empire) that expanded to become the kingdom of Prussia in 1701. state of Germany
United States Protestant theologian (1892-1971). American protestant theologian
the largest island in the world; lies between the North Atlantic and the Arctic Ocean; a self-governing province of Denmark. autonomous country within the Kingdom of Denmark
German physiologist and physicist (1821-1894). physicist and physiologist
Dutch humanist and theologian who was the leading Renaissance scholar of northern Europe; although his criticisms of the Roman Catholic Church led to the Reformation, he opposed violence and condemned Martin Luther (1466-1536). Dutch Renaissance humanist, Catholic priest, and theologian
a peninsula in Queensland in northeastern Australia between the Gulf of Carpentaria and the Coral Sea. peninsula in Far North Queensland, Australia
United States film maker (born in Austria) whose films made Marlene Dietrich an international star (1894-1969). Austrian-American film director
a republic in northeastern Europe on the eastern coast of the Baltic Sea. republic in Northern Europe
United States clergyman who was a leader for the abolition of slavery (1813-1887). American clergyman and activist
a mountain range extending 1500 miles on the border between India and Tibet; this range contains the world's highest mountain. mountain range in South Asia
British choreographer (1906-1988). British dancer and choreographer
American chemist who with Richard Smalley and Harold Kroto discovered fullerenes and opened a new branch of chemistry (born in 1933). American chemist
a poem written by Francis Scott Key during the War of 1812 was set to music and adopted by Congress in 1931 as the national anthem of the United States. national anthem of the United States
Italian pope from 795 to 816 who in 800 crowned Charlemagne emperor of the Romans (750-816). pope
Roman Emperor who succeeded Tiberius and whose uncontrolled passions resulted in manifest insanity; noted for his cruelty and tyranny; was assassinated (12-41). 3rd Emperor of Ancient Rome, a member of the Julio-Claudian dynasty
a large constellation in the northern hemisphere between Lyra and Corona Borealis. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
city in southwestern Austria; known as a summer and winter resort. federated state capital of Tyrol, Austria
Flemish painter of numerous portraits (1599-1641). Flemish Baroque artist
an arm of the Tasman Sea forming a bay to the east of Brisbane. bay in Queensland, Australia
English novelist and poet (1828-1909). British novelist and poet of the Victorian era
a state in New England. state of the United States of America
United States naval officer remembered for his heroic deeds (1779-1820). United States Navy officer
an avenue in Manhattan that separates the east side of Manhattan from the west side. avenue in Manhattan
the re-establishment of the British monarchy in 1660. a time period and series of events in British history
prolific United States writer (1822-1909). American author and Unitarian clergyman
a street in central London containing many of the major London banks. street in the City of London
Russian ballerina (1882-1931). Russian ballet dancer
legendary follower of Robin Hood; noted for his size and strength. legendary character from the Robin Hood legend
French political philosopher who advocated the separation of executive and legislative and judicial powers (1689-1755). French social commentator and political thinker
United States businessman who in 1872 established a successful mail-order business (1843-1913). American businessman
(Greek mythology) a Titaness who became identified with Artemis as goddess of the Moon. Titan in Greek mythology
United States playwright and public official (1902-1987). American writer, politician, ambassador, journalist and anti-Communist activist
United States composer and lyricist of musical comedies (1891-1946). American composer and songwriter
(New Testament) the rising of the body of Jesus into heaven on the 40th day after his Resurrection. in Christianity, the departure of the risen Christ from Earth into the presence of God, said to have taken place 40 days after the resurrection, as described in Acts 1
a war between the United States and Spain in 1898. conflict in 1898 between Spain and the United States
a desert region in south central Australia to the north of the Nullarbor Plain. desert in Western Australia and South Australia
United States writer of detective novels (1888-1939). pseudonym of American art critic and writer Willard Huntington Wright
United States writer remembered for his stories (1783-1859). American writer, historian and diplomat
United States puppeteer who created a troupe of puppet characters (1936-1990). American puppeteer, filmmaker, and businessman
the capital and largest city of Idaho. city in and state capital of Idaho, United States
English comedienne and mistress of Charles II (1650-1687). Royal mistress
a mountain in the Andes in Argentina (22,241 feet high). mountain
the early period when Italy was the center of the Renaissance. cultural movement
an Egyptian god of procreation. Egyptian deity
a mountain in the central Himalayas on the border of Tibet and Nepal; the highest mountain peak in the world (29,028 feet high). Earth's highest mountain, part of the Himalaya between Nepal and China
United States labor leader who was president of the United Mine Workers of America from 1920 to 1960 and president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations from 1935 to 1940 (1880-1969). American labor leader
a city of western West Virginia on the Ohio river at the mouth of the Kanawha. city in the U.S. state of West Virginia
a small landlocked Asian country high in the Himalayas between India and China. country in South Asia
capital and largest city of Argentina; located in eastern Argentina near Uruguay; Argentina's chief port and industrial and cultural center. capital city of Argentina
United States actress noted for her one-woman shows (1901-1979). American screenwriter
a group of 21 volcanic islands in the North Atlantic between Iceland and the Shetland Islands. autonomus constituent country of the Kingdom of Denmark
a city in western Russia on the Dnieper River; scene of severe fighting in World War II. city in the west of European Russia
a city in northern Mexico in the state of Chihuahua; commercial center of northern Mexico. state capital of the Mexican state of Chihuahua
Irish patriot and a founder of the Sinn Fein (1865-1953). Irish revolutionary and activist
the sacred writings of Islam revealed by God to the prophet Muhammad during his life at Mecca and Medina. the central religious text of Islam
the battle in 202 BC in which Scipio decisively defeated Hannibal at the end of the second Punic War. final battle of the Second Punic War
a town in eastern Iowa on the Mississippi River. town in Iowa, USA
British statesman who as Prime Minister pursued a policy of appeasement toward fascist Germany (1869-1940). former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom
a naval battle in World War II (1944); a decisive naval victory for the United States fleet over the Japanese who were trying to block supplies from reaching American troops on Leyte. naval battle of World War II
Australian physician and bacteriologist who described the bacterium that causes undulant fever or brucellosis (1855-1931). British pathologist
former president of Iceland; first woman to be democratically elected head of state (born in 1930). Icelandic politician, 4th President of Iceland
Scottish sailor who was put ashore on a deserted island off the coast of Chile for five years (providing the basis for Daniel Defoe's novel about Robinson Crusoe) (1676-1721). Scottish sailor
United States writer (born in 1934). American writer
a river in northwestern Germany that flows northward to the North Sea near Bremerhaven. river in north-western Germany
a war in which Athens and its allies were defeated by the league centered on Sparta; 431-404 BC. ancient Greek war
Queen of England as the third wife of Henry VIII and mother of Edward VI (1509-1537). English writer
a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Puppis and Caelum. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
United States writer of novels and short stories (1912-1982). American novelist and short story writer
United States artist who developed Tiffany glass (1848-1933). American stained glass and jewelry designer
United States civil rights leader whose college registration caused riots in traditionally segregated Mississippi (born in 1933). American civil rights movement figure, a writer, and a political adviser
English biochemist (born in Germany) who discovered the Krebs cycle (1900-1981). British biochemist
a port city in eastern Tunisia on the Mediterranean. ancient city in Iran
a federation in northeastern Europe and northern Asia; formerly Soviet Russia; since 1991 an independent state. transcontinental country in Eastern Europe and Northern Asia
a war between North and South Korea; South Korea was aided by the United States and other members of the United Nations; 1950-1953. 1950뼰1953 war between North Korea and South Korea
American Revolutionary leader (born in Ireland) who was a member of the Constitutional Convention (1745-1806). Governor of New Jersey
Swedish film director who used heavy symbolism and explored the psychology of the characters (born 1918). Swedish filmmaker
a battle in the Chino-Japanese War (1894); Japanese captured the port and fortifications from the Chinese. 1904 naval battle of the Russo-Japanese War
a river in western Oregon that flows north into the Columbia River near Portland. major river in northwest Oregon
a lake in southern Canada in Manitoba. lake in central North America
United States naturalist who contributed to paleontology and geology (1884-1960). American explorer, adventurer and naturalist
art historian (1892-1968). art historian
(Greek mythology) messenger and herald of the gods; god of commerce and cunning and invention and theft; identified with Roman Mercury. Olympian god in Greek religion and mythology; the emissary and messenger of the gods; the god of trade, heraldry, merchants, commerce, roads, thieves, trickery, sports, travelers, and athletes; the son of Zeus and the Pleiad Maia
Italian pope from 440 to 461 who extended the authority of the papacy to the west and persuaded Attila not to attack Rome (440-461). Pope from 440 to 461
a naturally protected waterway from Seattle to Skagway in southeastern Alaska. water route in northwest North America
United States film actress who retired when she married into the royal family of Monaco (1928-1982). American actress and Princess consort of Monaco
United States diplomat who (as Secretary of State) pursued a policy of opposition to the USSR by providing aid to American allies (1888-1959). United States Secretary of State
(Old Testament) the Hebrew prophet who led the Israelites from Egypt across the Red sea on a journey known as the Exodus; Moses received the Ten Commandments from God on Mount Sinai. person, mentioned in the Torah (Pentateuch) and in the Quran, who led the Israelites out of slavery in Egypt to Canaan
educator who founded the first kindergarten in the United States (1804-1894). American educator
New Zealand mountaineer who in 1953 first attained the summit of Mount Everest with his Sherpa guide Tenzing Norgay (born in 1919). New Zealand mountaineer
a landlocked republic in west central Asia bordering on northwestern China; formerly an Asian soviet but became independent in 1991. republic in Central Asia
a desert to the east of the Indus River in northwestern India and southeastern Pakistan. large, arid region in the northwestern part of the Indian subcontinent
United States saxophonist and leader of the bop style of jazz (1920-1955). American jazz saxophonist and composer
a cathedral city in west central England on the River Severn. city and the county town of Worcestershire, England
a mountain peak in the Andes in Peru (21,709 feet high). mountain
Italian astronomer who first noted lines (which he called canals) on the surface of Mars (1835-1910). Italian astronomer and science historian
a city in southern Texas on an arm of the Gulf of Mexico. city in Texas
an Apocryphal book consisting mainly of a meditation on wisdom; although ascribed to Solomon it was probably written in the first century BC. Deuterocanonical sapiential book of the Bible
king of France (1289-1316). King of France and of Navarre
capital and largest city of Togo; located in the south on the Gulf of Guinea. capital of Togo
a river that rises in western South Dakota and flows eastward to the Missouri River. South Dakota tributary of the Missouri River
a city in east central Texas. city in Texas, United States
United States landscape architect primarily responsible for the design of Central Park in New York City (1822-1903). American journalist, social critic, public administrator, and landscape designer
Mexican revolutionary who led a revolt for agrarian reforms (1879-1919). Mexican Revolutionary
(Greek mythology) a member of the warriors who followed Achilles on the expedition against Troy. Greek mythical character, eponymous ancestor of the Myrmidons
Muslim name for the one and only God. primary name for the God in Islam
United States capitalist (born in Germany) who made a fortune in fur trading (1763-1848). German-American businessman
island in West Indies. autonomous island in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
king of Sweden who established Lutheranism as the state religion (1496-1560). King of Sweden
a string of islands off the northwestern coast of Norway in the Norwegian Sea. archipelago and traditional district in Nordland county, Norway
a town twenty miles to the east of Rome (Tibur is the ancient name); a summer resort during the Roman empire; noted for its waterfalls. Italian comune
one of a race of intelligent horses who ruled the Yahoos in a novel by Jonathan Swift. fictional race in Gulliver's Travels
French composer of operas (1836-1891). French composer
Florentine architect who was the first great architect of the Italian Renaissance (1377-1446). Italian architect, sculptor and engineer
a zodiacal constellation in the northern hemisphere near Orion; between Aries and Gemini. zodiac constellation straddling the celestial equator
city in the northeastern part of South Africa near Pretoria; commercial center for diamond and gold industries. city in South Africa
the largest continent with 60% of the earth's population; it is joined to Europe on the west to form Eurasia; it is the site of some of the world's earliest civilizations. continent, mainly on the Earth's northeastern quadrant
the largest of Jupiter's satellites. Galilean moon of Jupiter
capital of Sao Tome and Principe. capital city of S?o Tom뫜 and Pr뼻뵇cipe
an extinct volcano in south central Honshu that is the highest peak in Japan; last erupted in 1707; famous for its symmetrical snow-capped peak; a sacred mountain and site for pilgrimages. mountain in Yamanashi and Shizuoka Prefectures, Japan
a region of western Antarctica along the southeastern shore of the Weddell Sea. geographic region
a mountain in the Black Hills of South Dakota; the likenesses of Washington and Jefferson and Lincoln and Roosevelt are carved on it. sculpture on mountain in South Dakota, USA of four US presidents
a republic in central Africa; achieved independence from Belgium in 1960. country in Central Africa
Swiss theologian whose sermons began the Reformation in Switzerland (1484-1531). leader of the Protestant Reformation in Switzerland, and founder of the Swiss Reformed Churches
French anthropologist who studied the craniums and brains of different races of people; remembered for his discovery that articulate speech depends on an area of the brain now known as Broca's area (1824-1880). French anthropologist
a remnant of a supernova detected first in 1054 AD. Supernova remnant
(classical mythology) god of male procreative power and guardian of gardens and vineyards. ancient Greek deity
an inlet of the Atlantic Ocean between southern Wales and southwestern England. major inlet in the island of Great Britain
a city in eastern Tennessee. city in the U.S. state of Tennessee
United States filmmaker (born in Austria) (1907-1997). Austrian-American film director
a city of northern Morocco at the west end of the Strait of Gibraltar. City in Morocco
United States architect who formed and important architectural firm with John Merven Carrere (1860-1929). American architect
capital of the state of South Dakota; located in central South Dakota on the Missouri river. capital city of South Dakota and county seat of Hughes County
a landlocked republic in south central South America; achieved independence from Spain in 1811. republic in South America
Pope and father of Cesare Borgia and Lucrezia Borgia (1431-1503). pope of the Catholic Church 1492뼰1503
(German mythology) mythical German warrior hero of the Nibelungenlied who takes possession of the accursed treasure of the Nibelungs by slaying the dragon that guards it and awakens Brynhild and is eventually killed; Sigurd is the Norse counterpart. fictional character in Germanic and Norse mythology
United States writer noted for her novel about the South during the American Civil War (1900-1949). American author and journalist
English novelist noted for her insightful portrayals of middle-class families (1775-1817). English novelist
a major port city in northeastern China on the Liaodong Peninsula; now a part of Luda. district of Liaoning Province, China
United States lyricist who collaborated on many musical comedies (most successfully with Richard Rodgers) (1895-1960). American librettist, lyricist, theatrical producer, and (usually uncredited) theatre director of musicals
a narrow channel of water separating Staten Island and Brooklyn. strait in New York City
United States golfer (born in 1939). American golfer
the 4th largest of Jupiter's satellites; covered with a smooth shell of frozen water. Galilean moon of Jupiter
an inactive volcano in central Chile; last erupted in 1959. mountain in Argentina
a communist state in Indochina on the South China Sea; achieved independence from France in 1945. republic in Southeast Asia
Italian pope from 1484 to 1492 who was known as a nepotist and was attacked by Savonarola for his worldliness (1432-1492). pope
the capital and largest city of Guatemala. capital and largest city of the Republic of Guatemala
any of three successive temples in Jerusalem that served as the primary center for Jewish worship; the first temple contained the Ark of the Covenant and was built by Solomon in the 10th century BC and destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar in 586 BC; the second was built in 515 BC and the third was an enlargement by Herod the Great in 20 BC that was destroyed by the Romans during a Jewish revolt in AD 70; all that remains is the Wailing Wall. one of a series of structures which were located on the Temple Mount in the Old City of Jerusalem
a river in southern Michigan that flows northwest to empty into Lake Michigan. river in Michigan
(Old Testament) Jonah did not wish to become a prophet so God caused a great storm to throw him overboard from a ship; he was saved by being swallowed by a whale that vomited him out onto dry land. Biblical and Quranic prophet
the highest mountain peak in the Pamir Mountains; near the Chinese border in northeastern Tajikistan (24,590 feet high). Mountain of Pamir range
a Crusade from 1145 to 1147 that failed because of internal disagreements among the crusaders and led to the loss of Jerusalem in 1187. second major crusade launched from Europe as Catholic ('Latin') Holy War against Islam
German romantic poet (1787-1862). German poet
an alchemist of German legend who sold his soul to Mephistopheles in exchange for knowledge. protagonist of a classic German legend
United States writer (born in Russia) (1899-1977). Russian-American novelist, lepidopterist, professor
an ancient Roman road in Italy built by Gaius Flaminius in 220 BC; extends north from Rome to cisalpine Gaul. Ancient Roman Roman road
Russian revolutionary and Communist theorist who helped Lenin and built up the army; he was ousted from the Communist Party by Stalin and eventually assassinated in Mexico (1879-1940). Marxist revolutionary from Russia
Hindu god of love and erotic desire; opposite of Mara. concept in Hinduism about emotion, desire and love
Roman statesman regarded as a model of simple virtue; he twice was called to assume dictatorship of Rome and each time retired to his farm (519-438 BC). Roman politician and military figure
a city of east central Mexico (west of Veracruz); a popular resort. human settlement in Mexico
a Greek island in the southeast Aegean Sea 10 miles off the Turkish coast; the largest of the Dodecanese; it was colonized before 1000 BC by Dorians from Argos; site of the Colossus of Rhodes. island and municipality in Greece
a city in north central Texas near the Oklahoma border. city in Texas, United States of America
(Old Testament) when God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, Lot and his family were told to flee without looking back; Lot's wife was disobedient and was immediately changed into a pillar of salt. person mentioned in the biblical Book of Genesis
United States actor (1858-1942). American actor
United States writer of historical novels (1907-1997). American author
a university in Massachusetts. private research university in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States
ancient Athenian philosopher; pupil of Socrates; teacher of Aristotle (428-347 BC). Classical Greek philosopher
a United States territory on the eastern part of the island of Samoa. US territory in the Pacific
United States baseball player noted as a hitter (1918-2002). American baseball player, member of the National Baseball Hall of Fame, the last baseball player to bat .400 in a season
French philosopher who proposed elan vital as the cause of evolution and development (1859-1941). French philosopher
cat- or lion-headed Egyptian goddess; represents life-giving power of the sun. Egyptian cat deity
a mountain peak in the Andes in Argentina (21,654 feet high). mountain in Argentina
United States baseball player (1931-1997). American baseball player
from two million to 11 thousand years ago; extensive glaciation of the northern hemisphere; the time of human evolution. First epoch of the Quaternary Period
a widely used search engine for the web that finds information, news, images, products, finance. web services provider globally known for its Web portal and search engine
United States swimmer who in 1926 became the first woman to swim the English Channel (1906-2003). American competition swimmer, Olympic champion, former world record-holder
United States sculptor (1860-1936). sculptor
English materialist and political philosopher who advocated absolute sovereignty as the only kind of government that could resolve problems caused by the selfishness of human beings (1588-1679). English philosopher
English playwright noted for his humorous and satirical plays (1640-1716). English dramatist of the Restoration period
United States general who was a hero of the War of 1812 and who defeated Santa Anna in the Mexican War (1786-1866). Union United States Army general
Russian poet (1880-1921). Russian poet
United States labor leader; president of the United Mine Workers of America from 1898 to 1908 (1870-1919). United States labor leader, born 1870
a town in southeastern Mexico near Oaxaca; site of Ahuehuete, a giant Montezuma cypress. human settlement
soviet statesman and head of state of the USSR (1875-1946). Soviet politician (1875-1946)
a group of islands in the southwestern Pacific to the northeast of New Guinea; part of Papua New Guinea. archipelago in the Pacific Ocean north of New Guinea
a mountain range in central Asia that extends a thousand miles from Kazakhstan eastward into western Mongolia and northern China. Mountains in Russia, Kazakhstan, China, and Mongolia
a system of hills in Britain that extend from the Scottish border in the north to the Trent River in the south; forms the watershed for English rivers. mountain range
British statesman and leader during World War II; received Nobel prize for literature in 1953 (1874-1965). British politician, army officer, and writer
a republic in northwestern Africa on the Mediterranean Sea with a population that is predominantly Sunni Muslim; colonized by France in the 19th century but gained autonomy in the early 1960s. country in North Africa
a Shiite terrorist organization with strong ties to Iran; seeks to create an Iranian fundamentalist Islamic state in Lebanon; car bombs are the signature weapon. Shi'a Islamist militant group and political party based in Lebanon
a university in California. private research university located in Stanford, California, United States
a radical Islamic group of terrorists in the Iraqi part of Kurdistan who oppose an independent secular nation as advocated by the United States; some members fought with the Taliban and al-Qaeda forces in Afghanistan; said to receive financial support from Saddam Hussein. political party
United States explorer and soldier who lead led an expedition from St. Louis to the mouth of the Columbia River (1774-1809). American explorer
a community of Negroid people in eastern South Africa. ethnic group
a male Bodhisattva; widely associated with various gods and people. Buddhist deity embodying compassion
king of the Franks and father of Charlemagne who defended papal interests and founded the Carolingian dynasty in 751 (714-768). King of the Franks
the capital and largest city of Kampuchea. capital of Cambodia
Englishman and Cavalier poet whose lyric poetry was favored by Charles I (1595-1639). English poet
an ancient empire to the west of Israel; centered on the Nile River and ruled by a Pharaoh; figured in many events described in the Old Testament. period 1550 to 1070 BC in ancient Egypt
the time period of Neanderthal man; ended about 35,000 years BC. archaeological period
United States prizefighter who was world heavyweight champion for 12 years (1914-1981). American boxer
high-scoring Canadian ice-hockey player (born in 1961). Canadian ice hockey player
a republic in northwestern Africa on the coast of the Atlantic; formerly a French colony but achieved independence in 1960. republic in Western Africa
son of Apollo; a hero and the Roman god of medicine and healing; his daughters were Hygeia and Panacea. Greek god of medicine
a river in southeastern Siberia that flows northwest from Lake Baikal to become a tributary of the Yenisei River. river in Irkutsk Oblast and Krasnoyarsk Krai, south-east Siberia, Russia
the eastern seaboard of the United States (especially the strip between Boston and Washington D.C.). easternmost coast of the United States
a mountain range in South America running 5000 miles along the Pacific coast. mountain range running along the western side of South America.causado por el pr뮁塋럆r argentino don Jos뫜 de san m뭼折봳ir en el 1810
a town in central North Carolina; site of the University of North Carolina. town in Orange County, North Carolina, United States
Florentine navigator who explored the coast of South America; America was named in his honor (1454-1512). Italian explorer, financier, navigator and cartographer
a city of southwestern Russia. city in the south of Russia
an island in the Indian Ocean off the east coast of Africa; part of the United Republic of Tanzania. semi-autonomous part of Tanzania
British writer of allegorical novels; one of three literary brothers (1875-1953). British novelist and short story writer
a New Testament book containing the epistle from Saint Paul to the Ephesians which explains the divine plan for the world and the consummation of this in Christ. book of the Bible
a river in Wisconsin that flows into Lake Michigan. tributary of Green Bay in eastern Wisconsin, USA
a republic (under United States protection) on the Marshall Islands. country in Oceania
United States film actress noted for sex appeal (1926-1962). American actress, model, and singer
a port city in southwestern Iran. city in Iran
king of France who was popular with his subjects (1462-1515). King of France
the second brightest star in the Southern Cross. Second-brightest star in the constellation Crux
the Greek courtier to Dionysius the Elder who (according to legend) was condemned to sit under a naked sword that was suspended by a hair in order to demonstrate to him that being a king was not the happy state Damocles had said it was (4th century BC). figure featured in an ancient Greek moral anecdote
English writer remember for his treatise on fishing (1593-1683). English author and biographer
an ancient city in southern Bulgaria; commercial center of an agricultural region. second-largest city in Bulgaria
in December 1941 the island was captured by the Japanese after a gallant last-ditch stand by a few hundred United States marines. battle of World War II
Danish physician who discovered Bartholin's gland (1585-1629). Danish polymath
an Apocryphal book consisting of text added to the Book of Daniel. biblical episode and artistic theme
Greek poet whose existing works describe rural life and the genealogies of the gods and the beginning of the world (eighth century BC). ancient Greek poet
British writer who defended the Romanticism of Keats and Shelley (1784-1859). English critic, essayist, poet and writer
Irish poet and playwright whose plays are based on rural Irish life (1871-1909). Irish playwright, poet, prose writer, and collector of folklore
leader of the Nez Perce in their retreat from United States troops (1840-1904). Nez Perc뫜 Chieftain
British physicist who was born in Germany and fled Nazi persecution; in the 1940s he passed secret information to the USSR about the development of the atom bomb in the United States (1911-1988). German-born British theoretical physicist and atomic spy
capital of Barbados; a port city on the southwestern coast of Barbados. capital of Barbados
an Asian river between China and Russia; flows into the Sea of Okhotsk. river in Russia and China
United States charismatic civil rights leader and Baptist minister who campaigned against the segregation of Blacks (1929-1968). American clergyman, activist, and leader in the American Civil Rights Movement
the second largest island of the Philippines at the southern end of the archipelago; mountainous and volcanic. second largest island of the Philippines
a shallow saline lake in northwestern Iran between Tabriz and the western border of Turkey. salt lake
an ancient kingdom of the Hebrew tribes at the southeastern end of the Mediterranean Sea; founded by Saul around 1025 BC and destroyed by the Assyrians in 721 BC. Wikipedia disambiguation page
Italian pope from 1447 to 1455 who founded the Vatican library (1397-1455). pope of catholic church from 1447 until 1455
English inventor and pioneer in photography who published the first book illustrated with photographs (1800-1877). British inventor and photographer
United States writer remembered for her muckraking investigations into industries in the early 20th century (1857-1944). American journalist
United States biochemist (1891-1987). American biochemist
United States songwriter and playwright famous for his patriotic songs (1878-1942). American composer and playwright
United States operatic tenor (born in Ireland) (1884-1945). Irish tenor
a long lake in southeastern Africa between Tanzania, Mozambique, and Malawi. African Great Lake
(Greek mythology) the daughter of Tantalus whose boasting about her children provoked Apollo and Artemis to slay them all; Niobe was turned to stone while bewailing her loss. mythological figure
(Roman mythology) supreme god of Romans; counterpart of Greek Zeus. king of the gods in ancient Roman religion and myth
Greek biographer who wrote Parallel Lives (46?-120 AD). ancient Greek historian and philosopher
Celtic goddess who was the mother of the Tuatha De Danann; identified with the Welsh Don. water deity
United States composer of musicals (born in 1930). American composer and lyricist
English philosopher and sociologist who applied the theory of natural selection to human societies (1820-1903). English philosopher, biologist, sociologist, and prominent classical liberal political theorist
a community of Native Americans who speak a Hokan language and live in northeastern California. Native American tribe in Northern California
a city in Taiwan. city in Taiwan
United States sociologist (1910-2003). American sociologist
Chinese communist statesman (1904-1997). Chinese politician, Paramount leader of China
a town in central Alabama on the Alabama river; in 1965 it was the center of a drive to register Black voters. city in Alabama, USA
a small cape in southwestern Spain. headland in Spain, site of the Battle of Trafalgar
an ancient city in northeastern Pakistan; served as capital of Pakistan while Islamabad was being built. city in Punjab Province, Pakistan
Egyptian goddess of the sky. goddess of the sky in the Ennead of Egyptian mythology
United States historian (1912-1989). American historian and author
an inactive volcano on the Kamchatka Peninsula; last erupted in 1946. active volcano located on the peninsula of Kamchatka in Russia
old master of the Venetian school (1490-1576). Italian painter
a city in Indonesia; located in northeastern Sumatra. city of North Sumatra Province, Indonesia
a New Testament book containing an epistle from Saint Paul to the church at Philippi in Macedonia. eleventh book in the New Testament
a city in northeastern Nigeria; an agricultural trading center. capital and largest city of Borno State in north-eastern Nigeria
United States dramatist (1888-1959). American playwright and writer
the capital and largest city of Venezuela. capital and centre of the Greater Caracas Area, Venezuela
an arm of the eastern Indian Ocean between Timor and northern Australia. sea
Mongolian ruler of Samarkand who led his nomadic hordes to conquer an area from Turkey to Mongolia (1336-1405). Turco-Mongol ruler
a state in west central United States in the Rocky Mountains. state of the United States of America
a treatise resembling a Brahmana but to be read or expounded by anchorites in the quiet of the forest. A layer of texts within the Vedas
United States writer of romantic novels about the unjust treatment of Native Americans (1830-1885). Novelist, poet, writer, activist
an ancient city on the Ebro River in northeastern Spain; formerly the capital of Aragon. city of Aragon, Spain
the part of Indonesia on the southern side of the island of Borneo. Indonesian portion of the island of Borneo or the whole island of Borneo
an oil pipeline that runs 800 miles from wells at Prudhoe Bay to the port of Valdez. oil pipeline
Celtic goddess; mother of Angus Og. water deity
the capital and largest city of Norway; the country's main port; located at the head of a fjord on Norway's southern coast. capital city and county in Norway
a port town in Eritrea on an inlet of the Red Sea. city on the Red Sea coast of Eritrea
son of Antigonus Cyclops and king of Macedonia; he and his father were defeated at the battle of Ipsus (337-283 BC). king of Macedon
the chief mountain range of western North America; extends from British Columbia to northern New Mexico; forms the continental divide. mountain range in North America
United States conductor and composer (1918-1990). American composer, conductor, author, music lecturer, and pianist
the last Stuart to be king of England and Ireland and Scotland; overthrown in 1688 (1633-1701). King of England, Scotland and Ireland
a boot-shaped peninsula in southern Europe extending into the Mediterranean Sea. peninsula of southern Europe
empress of Russia who greatly increased the territory of the empire (1729-1796). Empress of Russia
United States host on a well known television variety show (1902-1974). American television host
birth-control campaigner who in 1921 opened the first birth control clinic in London (1880-1958). British birth control campaigner and paleontologist
(fairytale) a monstrous villain who marries seven women; he kills the first six for disobedience. French folktale
a tributary of the Mississippi River that flows southeastward through northern Arkansas and southern Missouri. river in Arkansas and Missouri, United States
a Siren of German legend who lured boatmen in the Rhine to destruction. rock on the eastern bank of the River Rhine in Germany
United States writer of humorous essays (1809-1894). Poet, essayist, physician
a city in southeastern Germany; site of Allied trials of Nazi war criminals (1945-46). city in the German state of Bavaria
a text browser. text-based cross-platform web browser
chief Celtic god of the Tuatha De Danann; father of Angus Og and Brigit. deity
the strait between the Aegean and the Sea of Marmara that separates European Turkey from Asian Turkey. strait in northwestern Turkey
United States anthropologist (born in England) who popularized anthropology (1905-). British-American anthropologist
Polish filmmaker who made ten films based on the Ten Commandments (1941-1996). Polish film director and screenwriter
an island that forms the northeastern part of Nova Scotia. island in Nova Scotia
Greek mathematician and inventor who devised a way to determine the area of a triangle and who described various mechanical devices (first century). ancient Greek mathematician and engineer
the world's 2nd largest active volcano; located in the Andes in southern Peru. volcano in Peru
son of Louis II and king of the France and Germany (863-882). King of France
an eastern range of the Alps in northeastern Italy famous for their dolomitic limestone. mountain range in the Alps
a Saxon kingdom in southwestern England that became the most powerful English kingdom by the 10th century. Anglo-Saxon kingdom in the south of Great Britain
Russian chess master (born in 1931). Russian chess grandmaster
the battle that ended the Wars of the Roses (1485); Richard III was killed and Henry Tudor was crowned as Henry VII. last significant battle of the Wars of the Roses
United States surgeon remembered for his studies of digestion (1785-1853). American physician
Australian golfer (born in 1955). Australian golfer
one of the Gospels in the New Testament; includes the Sermon on the Mount. part of the New Testament
a town in central Vermont. city in and county seat of Rutland County, Vermont, United States
citadel of Moscow, housing the offices of the Russian government. fortified complex in Moscow, Russia
a mountain peak in the Andes in Bolivia (21,201 feet high). mountain
United States novelist (1917-1967). American writer
the capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo on the Congo river opposite Brazzaville. capital city of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
capital of Louisiana. parish seat city in East Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana, USA and Louisiana federated state capital city
German dramatist and poet who developed a style of epic theater (1898-1956). German poet, playwright, theatre director
United States tennis player who won women's singles titles in the United States and at Wimbledon (born in 1954). American tennis player
United States journalist (1889-1974). American journalist
English botanist who accompanied Captain Cook on his first voyage to the Pacific Ocean (1743-1820). English naturalist, botanist and patron of the natural sciences
a water route between the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean along the northern coast of North America; Europeans since the 16th century had searched for a short route to the Far East before it was successfully traversed by Roald Amundsen (1903-1906). sea route north of North America
an arm of the Atlantic Ocean in western Europe; bordered by the west coast of France and the north coast of Spain. gulf of the northeast Atlantic Ocean located south of the Celtic Sea
a city in western Oregon on the Willamette River; site of a university. city in Oregon, USA
two islands in the Arctic Ocean belonging to Russia; site of a test center for nuclear warheads. Arctic archipelago
formerly a large constellation in the southern hemisphere between Canis Major and the Southern Cross; now divided into Carina and Pyxis and Puppis and Vela. former constellation
thoroughbred that won the triple crown in 1919. Thoroughbred race horse; winner of U.S. Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing in 1919
the land between the Tigris and Euphrates; site of several ancient civilizations; part of what is now known as Iraq. area of the Tigris뼰깺凉탒phrates river system
South African writer (1903-1988). South African writer and activist
Roman general famous for self-indulgence and giving lavish banquets (circa 110-57 BC). ancient roman statesman
French composer (1865-1935). French composer
Japanese victory in the war with Russia (1904-1905) gave Japan power over Korea and Manchuria. war between the Russian Empire and the Empire of Japan
United States biochemist noted for developing drugs to treat leukemia and gout (1905-1998). Nobel Prize-winning American doctor
a state in the southwestern United States. state of the United States of America
Russian abstract painter (1878-1935). Russian artist and painter
English writer known for his interest in mythology and in the classics (1895-1985). English poet and novelist
United States literary critic (1895-1972). American writer, literary and social critic, and noted man of letters
a city in northeastern Iowa where the Big Sioux River joins the Missouri. city in Iowa, United States of America
British anthropologist (born in Poland) who introduced the technique of the participant observer (1884-1942). Polish anthropologist and ethnographer based in England and the USA
an asteroid whose orbit crosses the Earth's orbit. asteroid
a city of southeastern Estonia that was a member of the Hanseatic League. city in Estonia
(Roman mythology) the goddess of the Moon; counterpart of Greek Selene. Roman goddess of the Moon
a peninsula extending northward from the Arabian mainland into the Persian Gulf. constitutional monarchy in western Asia
a war between the allies (Russia, France, British Empire, Italy, United States, Japan, Rumania, Serbia, Belgium, Greece, Portugal, Montenegro) and the Central Powers (Germany, Austria-Hungary, Turkey, Bulgaria) from 1914 to 1918. 1914뼰1918 global war centered in Europe, between the Allied and Central Powers
a city in southeastern Brazil; suburb of Sao Paulo. city in S?o Paulo state, Brazil
city in northeast Pakistan. capital of the Punjab Province
a state in New England; one of the original 13 colonies; the smallest state. state on east coast of United States of America
United States dancer who performed in many musical films (1912-1996). American dancer, actor, singer, director, producer and choreographer
a picturesque mountainous province of western Austria and northern Italy. federal state in western Austria
a British playwright who created the fictional character Sweeney Todd (1799-1855). English playwright
prolific English dramatist who collaborated with Francis Beaumont and many other dramatists (1579-1625). English Jacobean playwright
republic in northern Europe; achieved independence from Russia in 1917. republic in Northern Europe
Hindu god of friendship and alliances; usually invoked together with Varuna as a supporter of heaven and earth. Indo-Iranian divinity
a town in northwest California on an arm of the Pacific Ocean. principal city and county seat of Humboldt County in California
a region in northeastern Italy. region of Italy
a city in central Lithuania. city in Lithuania
an industrial city in Leicestershire in central England; built on the site of a Roman settlement. city in Leicestershire, East Midlands, England
English scientist who formulated the law of elasticity and proposed a wave theory of light and formulated a theory of planetary motion and proposed the inverse square law of gravitational attraction and discovered the cellular structure of cork and introduced the term `cell' into biology and invented a balance spring for watches (1635-1703). English natural philosopher, architect and polymath
a United States bandmaster and composer of military marches (1854-1932). American conductor and composer
the ancient Roman state from 509 BC until Augustus assumed power in 27 BC; was governed by an elected Senate but dissatisfaction with the Senate led to civil wars that culminated in a brief dictatorship by Julius Caesar. period of ancient Roman civilization (509 BC-27 BC)
capital and largest city of Jamaica. capital of Jamaica
the capital of Cameroon. capital of Cameroon
a university town in western Montana. county seat of Missoula County, Montana, United States
(Greek mythology) god of fields and woods and shepherds and flocks; represented as a man with goat's legs and horns and ears; identified with Roman Sylvanus or Faunus. Greek god of the mountain wilds, shepherds, flocks, rustic music, fertility, spring, and theatrical criticism, with the hindquarters, legs, and horns of a goat
Celtic deity who was the lord of Annwfn (the other world or the land of fairies). King of the Otherworld in Welsh mythology
Swiss Protestant theologian (1886-1968). Swiss Protestant theologian
liberal British statesman who served as prime minister four times (1809-1898). British Liberal politician and prime minister of the United Kingdom
a Crusade from 1202 to 1204 that was diverted into a battle for Constantinople and failed to recapture Jerusalem. armed expedition
English poet remembered primarily for his free translation of the poetry of Omar Khayyam (1809-1883). Fitzgerald, Edward (1809-1883), poet and translator
English physician (1624-1689). English doctor
British inventor and metallurgist who developed the Bessemer process (1813-1898). English engineer, inventor, and businessman
French painter who portrayed life in the cafes and music halls of Montmartre (1864-1901). French painter
a Hindu demon who swallows the sun causing eclipses. Hindu deity representing ascending lunar node
(classical mythology) a hero noted for his strength; performed 12 immense labors to gain immortality. divine hero in Greek mythology, son of Zeus and Alcmene
United States blues musician who transcribed and published traditional blues music (1873-1958). American blues composer and musician
Norwegian composer whose work was often inspired by Norwegian folk music (1843-1907). Norwegian composer and pianist
Dutch physicist honored for his research on the influence of magnetism on radiation which showed that light is radiated by the motion of charged particles in an atom (1865-1943). Dutch physicist
conqueror of Gaul and master of Italy (100-44 BC). Roman politician and general
English railway pioneer who built the first passenger railway in 1825 (1781-1848). English civil engineer and mechanical engineer
United States bacteriologist who helped develop immunization against typhus fever (1878-1940). American physician, bacteriologist, and author
an island of south-central Hawaii. island in Maui County, Hawaii, United States
Austrian painter influenced by art nouveau (1862-1918). Austrian symbolist painter
Florentine painter who gave up the stiff Byzantine style and developed a more naturalistic style; considered the greatest Italian painter prior to the Renaissance (1267-1337). Italian painter and architect
French noblewoman who was mistress to Louis XIV until he became attracted to Madame de Maintenon (1641-1707). French noble
a town in southwestern Oregon; a summer resort. city in Oregon, USA
United States singer and film actor (1904-1977). American singer and actor
United States inventor who built a steam-powered automobile (1849-1918). American businessman
a port in southern Yemen on the Gulf of Aden to the east of Aden. District of Hadhramaut Governorate, Yemen
the second largest city in Tunisia; located in eastern Tunisia near a phosphate region. Tunisian town
English preacher and author of an allegorical novel, Pilgrim's Progress (1628-1688). English Christian writer and preacher
(Roman mythology) the twin brother of Romulus. twin brothers and central characters of Rome's foundation myth
the judicial capital and seat of the judiciary in Bolivia. constitutional capital of Bolivia
French naturalist known as the father of comparative anatomy (1769-1832). French naturalist, zoologist and paleontologist (1769뼰1832)
a borough of New York City. island in the United States of America; borough of New York City
Austrian physician who developed a rotational method for testing the middle ear (1876-1936). Austri-Hungarian otologist
a river in western Georgia that flows generally south to join the Chattahoochee River at the Florida border where they form the Apalachicola River. river in the United States of America
United States tennis player who was the first woman to win the United States, British, French, and Australian championships in the same year (1953) (1934-1969). American tennis player
a battle in World War I (1914); decisive German victory over the Russians. battle
United States pioneer who planted apple trees as he traveled (1774-1845). American nurseryman and missionary
the top layer of a soil profile; usually contains humus. soil layer whose physical characteristics differ from the layers above and beneath
British writer famous for writing spy novels about secret agent James Bond (1908-1964). English author, journalist and naval intelligence officer
Spanish surrealist painter (1893-1983). Spanish painter, sculptor, and ceramicist
United States professional baseball player noted for his batting ability (1914-1999). American baseball player, member of the National Baseball Hall of Fame
United States industrialist who built the first American locomotive; founded Cooper Union in New York City to offer free courses in the arts and sciences (1791-1883). American politician and businessman
English writer and historian; son of Sir Robert Walpole (1717-1797). an English writer, art historian, man of letters, antiquarian and Whig politician
Portuguese navigator in the service of Spain; he commanded an expedition that was the first to circumnavigate the world (1480-1521). Portuguese explorer in the service of Spain
Chinese statesman who organized the Kuomintang and led the revolution that overthrew the Manchu dynasty in 1911 and 1912 (1866-1925). Chinese physician, politician and revolutionary
city on Luzon adjoining Manila. city of the Philippines in Metro Manila
an island off southern Alaska in the Gulf of Alaska; site of the first European settlement in the area which was founded by the Russians in 1784. island in the United States of America
English poet and playwright who introduced blank verse as a form of dramatic expression; was stabbed to death in a tavern brawl (1564-1593). English dramatist, poet and translator
(Old Testament) an ancient city near the Dead Sea that (along with Gomorrah) was destroyed by God for the wickedness of its inhabitants. cities mentioned in the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament and the Qur'an
king of Persia who expanded the Persian Empire and invaded Greece but was defeated at the battle of Marathon (550-486 BC). 3rd king of the Persian Achaemenid Empire (550뼰486 BC)
the navy yard in Boston where the frigate `Constitution' is anchored. shipbuilding facility in the United States Navy
United States financier and philanthropist (1837-1913). American financier, banker, philanthropist and art collector
(Greek mythology) a wise old counselor to the Greeks at Troy. person from Greek mythology
British statesman under George III whose policies led to rebellion in the American colonies (1732-1792). Prime Minister of Great Britain from 1770 to 1782
a former province of western France in the Loire valley. county, duchy and province in the lower Loire Valley in France
Irish poet who wrote nostalgic and patriotic verse (1779-1852). Irish poet, singer and songwriter
a region of southwestern France. former France territory
Scottish physician who discovered that elephantiasis is spread by mosquitos and suggested that mosquitos also spread malaria (1844-1922). Scottish parasitologist
a tributary of the Grand Canyon. canyon on the Colorado River in San Juan, Garfield, and Wayne counties in Utah, United States
King of the Germans and Holy Roman Emperor (1275-1313). King of the Romans from 1308 to 1313
the military arm of Hamas responsible for suicide bombings and other attacks on Israel. military wing of the Palestinian Hamas organization
a prolonged war (1954-1975) between the communist armies of North Vietnam who were supported by the Chinese and the armies of South Vietnam who were supported by the United States. 1964뼰1975 armed conflict in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia between North Vietnam and South Vietnam
English philanthropist who made contributions to a college in Connecticut that was renamed in his honor (1649-1721). Welsh merchant and philanthropist
German anatomist (1733-1794). German psychologist
the capital of Slovenia. capital city of Slovenia
United States dancer and choreographer (born in 1944). American dancer
in 1649 the place was captured by Oliver Cromwell, who massacred the Catholic inhabitants. city
German botanist who is generally recognized as founding bacteriology when he recognized bacteria as plants. German biologist
the tyrant of Syracuse who fought the Carthaginians (430-367 BC). Sicilian tyrant
a European river; flows into the Baltic Sea. river in Central Europe flowing from the Czech Republic and along the Poland-Germany border
Austrian general in the service of the Holy Roman Empire during the War of the Spanish Succession (1663-1736). Austrian marshall
English author; Charles Dodgson was an Oxford don of mathematics who is remembered for the children's stories he wrote under the pen name Lewis Carroll (1832-1898). English writer, logician, Anglican deacon and photographer
a mountain peak in south central Sri Lanka (7,360 feet high). Mountain in the central highlands of Sri Lanka.
a major waterfall in northeastern Brazil. waterfall
a fictional Englishman who travels to the imaginary land of Lilliput in a satirical novel by Jonathan Swift. fictional character
9th President of the United States; caught pneumonia during his inauguration and died shortly after (1773-1841). American general and politician, 9th President of the United States (in office in 1841)
an agreement in 1820 between pro-slavery and anti-slavery factions in the United States concerning the extension of slavery into new territories. legislative compromise between pro- and anti-slavery parties in the run-up to the American Civil War
the capital and largest city of Zambia. capital of Zambia
an ancient town on a promontory in western Greece. human settlement
a global cluster in the constellation Centaurus. globular cluster in the constellation Centaurus
Swiss psychologist (1875-1961). Swiss psychiatrist and psychotherapist who founded analytical psychology
a large airport on Long Island to the east of New York City. international airport in New York, United States
one of the greatest of the ancient Athenian philosophers; pupil of Plato; teacher of Alexander the Great (384-322 BC). Classical Greek philosopher, student of Plato and founder of Western philosophy
an epithet for Jupiter. king of the gods in ancient Roman religion and myth
the first words of a medieval Latin hymn describing the Last Judgment (literally `day of wrath'). Latin sequence, liturgical hymn
a large inlet of the Barents Sea in the northwestern part of European Russia. marginal sea
French impressionist painter (1840-1926). French painter
Jewish general who led the revolt of the Jews against the Romans and then wrote a history of those events (37-100). first-century Romano-Jewish scholar, historian and hagiographer
Roman Emperor after his nephew Caligula was murdered; consolidated the Roman Empire and conquered southern Britain; was poisoned by his fourth wife Agrippina after her son Nero was named as Claudius' heir (10 BC to AD 54). 4th Emperor of Ancient Rome, member of the Julio-Claudian dynasty
a coastal region of Antarctica on the Indian Ocean to the south of Australia; most of the territory is claimed by Australia. geographic region
a Shinto god of war. Japanese Shinto뼰깺凉췼ddhist syncretic deity of archery and war; tutelary god of warriors; protector of Japan, the Japanese people and the Imperial House; the name means "God of 8 Banners", after the 8 heavenly banners signaling the birth of 뫗뒡in Tenn뫗
a peninsula in eastern Siberia; between Bering Sea and Sea of Okhotsk. peninsula in Eastern Russia between the Pacific Ocean and the Sea of Okhotsk
port city on southeastern Honshu in central Japan. city in Kanagawa prefecture, Japan
United States chemist (born in Norway) noted for his work in thermodynamics (1903-1976). physical chemist
an underworld Babylonian deity; patron of medicine. sumerian god
English actor noted for his portrayals of Shakespeare's great tragic characters (1789-1833). English actor
an Ismaili caliph of Egypt who declared himself an incarnation of God and founded the Druze religious sect (985-1021). caliph
a faint constellation in the southern hemisphere near Cetus and Phoenix. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
the last czar of Russia who was forced to abdicate in 1917 by the Russian Revolution; he and his family were executed by the Bolsheviks (1868-1918). Emperor of All the Russias, Grand Duke of Finland and King of Poland By the Grace of God
a town in east central Michigan on an arm of Lake Huron. county seat of Saginaw County, Michigan, United States
the largest city in Switzerland; located in the northern part of the country. capital of the canton of Z맚櫻튷ch, Switzerland
a river that flows from northern Wyoming into the Bighorn River in southern Montana; site of Custer's Last Stand. river in the United States of America
a highest mountain peak in the Kunlun Shan in China; near the Indian border (23,891 feet high). mountain
United States writer who described Creole life in Louisiana (1851-1904). American author
a river in central Russia; flows generally southward into the Volga. river in Russia
an impoverished region of western Sudan. region of Sudan
a major victory by the Romans over the Macedonians in 168 BC; resulted in the downfall of the ancient Macedonian kingdom. battle of the Third Macedonian War
an industrial and university city in central Massachusetts to the west of Boston. county seat city in Worcester County, Massachusetts, United States
(Old Testament) son of Noah. Biblical figure, son of Noah
a city in southwestern Germany at the confluence of the Rhine and Neckar rivers. city in Baden-W맚櫻틊temberg, Germany
a fictional English admiral during the Napoleonic Wars in novels written by C. S. Forester. fictional character
the brightest star in Orion. star in the constellation Orion
a port city in southwestern Norway; center for shipbuilding industry. city and municipality in Rogaland, Norway
English portrait and landscape painter (1727-1788). English portrait and landscape painter
British general in the American Revolution who captured Fort Ticonderoga but lost the battle of Saratoga in 1777 (1722-1792). British general and playwright, defeated in the 1777 Saratoga campaign
a German city; an industrial and commercial and financial center. city in Germany
a desert on a high plateau in northeastern Arizona. desert
French dramatist and poet whose play immortalized Cyrano de Bergerac (1868-1918). French writer
British marshal of the Royal Air Force; during World War II he directed mass bombing raids against German cities that resulted in heavy civilian casualties (1892-1984). Royal Air Force air marshal
Spanish missionary and Jesuit who establish missionaries in Japan and Ceylon and the East Indies (1506-1552). Navarrese Basque Roman Catholic saint and missionary
the largest of the Balearic Islands. island in the Mediterranean Sea
a republic in northeastern Africa known as the United Arab Republic until 1971; site of an ancient civilization that flourished from 2600 to 30 BC. republic in North Africa
a lake between southwestern Switzerland and France that is crossed from east to west by the Rhone. lake in Switzerland and France
French noblewoman who was the mistress of Henry II; she had more influence over him than did his wife Catherine de Medicis (1499-1566). French noblewoman and courtier
a constellation in the polar region of the southern hemisphere near Octans. Constellation
a large faint zodiacal constellation; between Aquarius and Aries. zodiac constellation straddling the celestial equator
one of the three prairie provinces in west central Canada. province of Canada
Italian painter and son of Fra Filippo Lippi (1457-1504). Italian painter
United States anthropologist who studied the Seneca (1818-1881). United States ethnologist
a central plateau region of the Arabian Peninsula; formerly an independent sultanate until 1932 when it united with Hejaz to form the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. central region of Saudi Arabia
United States politician who proposed that individual territories be allowed to decide whether they would have slavery; he engaged in a famous series of debates with Abraham Lincoln (1813-1861). American politician
a district in southwestern Scotland. area in southwestern Scotland
French architect who introduced the mansard roof (1598-1666). French architect
a mountainous peninsula on northwest Mexico. peninsula of North America on the Pacific Coast of Mexico
United States physician who proved that yellow fever is transmitted by mosquitoes (1851-1902). American physician and medical researcher
Australia, New Zealand, and neighboring islands in the South Pacific. region of Oceania
famous chief of the Ottawa who led an unsuccessful rebellion against the British (1715-1769). Ottawa Indian leader
a battle in World War II; the return of United States troops to the Philippines began with landings on Leyte Island in October 1944; the battle marked first use of kamikaze aircraft by the Japanese. amphibious invasion of the Gulf of Leyte in the Philippines by American and Filipino guerrilla forces during WWII
United States conductor (born in Hungary) (1897-1970). American conductor
a town in northwestern Washington on a bay near the Canadian border. city in, and the county seat of, Whatcom County in the State of Washington, United States
American revolutionary leader who signed the Declaration of Independence and was president of the Continental Congress (1731-1796). American judge and politician
port city and the capital and largest city of Sierra Leone. capital of Sierra Leone
a division of the United Kingdom. country in north-west Europe, part of the United Kingdom
United States writer remembered for his poetry in free verse and his six volume biography of Abraham Lincoln (1878-1967). American writer and editor
a city in eastern Kentucky; noted for raising thoroughbred horses. city in Fayette County, Kentucky, United States
19th President of the United States; his administration removed federal troops from the South and so ended the Reconstruction Period (1822-1893). American politician, 19th President of the United States (in office from 1877 to 1881)
a seaport in the Asian part of Russia. Russian city and the administrative center of Primorsky Krai
English economist and logician who contributed to the development of the theory of marginal utility (1835-1882). English economist and logician
a city and resort in southeastern Florida on Biscayne Bay; the best known city in Florida; a haven for retirees and a refuge for Cubans fleeing Castro. county seat of Miami-Dade County, Florida, United States
United States writer (1902-1967). American writer and social activist
a university town in southeastern Idaho. city in Idaho
Indian chief and founder of the Powhatan confederacy of tribes in eastern Virginia; father of Pocahontas (1550?-1618). Paramount chief of Tsenacommacah
United States jurist who was appointed chief justice of the United States Supreme Court in 1874 by President Grant (1816-1888). American politician
an Apocryphal book ascribed to Baruch. Baruch is a deuterocanonical book of the Bible in some Christian traditions.
German chemist who with Kirchhoff pioneered spectrum analysis but is remembered mainly for his invention of the Bunsen burner (1811-1899). German chemist
son of Lorenzo de'Medici and pope from 1513 to 1521 who excommunicated Martin Luther and who in 1521 bestowed on Henry VIII the title of Defender of the Faith (1475-1521). Pope from 1513 to 1521
the capital of Lesotho; located in northwestern Lesotho. capital of Lesotho
French writer of novels and short stories (1821-1880). French writer
a national park in California that has giant sequoia trees and alpine lakes and glaciers. national park in the Sierra Nevada mountains in California, USA
comic dramatist of ancient Rome (253?-184 BC). Roman comic playwright of the Old Latin period
United States composer (born in Hungary) who composed operettas (1887-1951). Hungarian-born American operetta composer
queen of Egypt and wife of Akhenaton (14th century BC). Egyptian queen and Great Royal Wife (chief consort) of Akhenaten, an Egyptian Pharaoh
capital and largest city of Oklahoma; the economy is based on oil and livestock. city in Oklahoma County, Cleveland County and Canadian County, Oklahoma, USA, county seat in Oklahoma County and Oklahoma federated state capital city
Australian who was the first to explore the Arctic by airplane (1888-1958). Australian polar explorer
ancient Persian god of light and truth; sun god. Zoroastrian angelic divinity (yazata) of Covenant, Light, and Oath. In addition to being the Divinity of Contracts; an all-seeing Protector of Truth and the Guardian of Cattle, the Harvest, and of the Waters.
a battle in the Thirty Years' War (1643); the French defeated the Spanish invaders. battle
son of Ethelred the Unready; King of England from 1042 to 1066; he founded Westminster Abbey where he was eventually buried (1003-1066). Anglo-Saxon king of England
a district of Los Angeles long associated with the American film industry. district in Los Angeles, California, United States
(New Testament) the Apostle who betrayed Jesus to his enemies for 30 pieces of silver. one of the twelve original apostles of Jesus Christ, known for betrayal of Jesus
Irish dancer (1818-1861). Irish adventuress
a collection of mantras and tunes for use with the Rig-Veda. The musical Veda of Hinduism
a city in the center of Tanzania that has been designated as the future capital. city and capital of Tanzania
a famous Gothic church of St. Peter in Westminster, London on the site of a former Benedictine monastery. abbey church in the City of Westminster, London, England
an oil town in eastern Saudi Arabia on an inlet from the Persian Gulf; in June 1996 terrorists bombed an apartment complex in Dhahran killing 19 United States soldiers and wounding more than 300 people. city in Saudi Arabia
a large inlet of the North Atlantic between Virginia and Maryland; fed by Susquehanna River. estuary in the U.S. states of Maryland, Delaware, District of Columbia, and Virginia
an ancient Assyrian city on the Tigris across from the modern city of Mosul in the northern part of what is now known as Iraq. ancient Assyrian city, capital of the Neo-Assyrian Empire
a university town in west central Alabama. county seat of Tuscaloosa County, Alabama, United States
capital of the People's Republic of China in the Hebei province in northeastern China; 2nd largest Chinese city. capital of China
a city in northeastern Scotland on the North Sea. city in Scotland
a port city in western Ireland on Galway Bay. city in Ireland
British general and statesman whose victory at Plassey in 1757 strengthened British control of India (1725-1774). British East India Company military officer
a battle in World War I (May 1918); the Germans tried to attack before the American numbers were too great to defeat; the tactical success of the Germans proved to be a strategic failure. battle of the German Spring Offensive during World War I
British field marshal in North Africa in World War II; he defeated the Italians before being defeated by the Germans (1883-1950). senior officer of the British Army
United States writer (1885-1977). American poet
a former province of southeastern France; now administered with Cote d'Azur. region and historical province of southeastern France
Indian philosopher and statesman who introduced Indian philosophy to the West (1888-1975). Indian philosopher and statesman who was the first Vice President and the second President of India
the capital of the State of the Vatican City. country in southern Europe under the sovereignty of the Holy See
a peninsula in eastern Canada between the Bay of Fundy and the Saint Lawrence River. province of Canada
United States poet (1928-1974). American poet
United States biochemist (born in Germany) who studied the metabolism of muscles (1884-1951). German biochemist
United States writer (born in 1915). American writer
the sepulcher in which Christ's body lay between burial and resurrection. church in Jerusalem
United States electrical engineer and inventor (born in Germany) (1865-1923). Mathematician and electrical engineer
English historian best known for his history of the Roman Empire (1737-1794). English historian and Member of Parliament
a semiarid region in southern South America. desert
czar of Russia who introduced ideas from western Europe to reform the government; he extended his territories in the Baltic and founded St. Petersburg (1682-1725). Tsar and 1st Emperor, founder of the Russian Empire
(New Testament) disciple of Jesus; brother of Peter; patron saint of Scotland. religious figure of the Christian faith
Chinese lyric poet (700-762). Chinese poet
an atoll in the Marshall Islands; formerly used by the United States as a site for testing nuclear weapons. Atoll within the Marshall Islands
a port and shipbuilding center in northeastern China on the Liaodong Peninsula; now a part of Luda. sub-provincial city in Liaoning, China
an ancient Greek city on the southwestern coast of Asia Minor in what is now Turkey; site of the mausoleum at Halicarnassus. ancient Greek city
the geographical area (in Roman times) to the north of the Antonine Wall; now a poetic name for Scotland. Latin name given by the Romans to the land in today's Scotland
the mother-in-law of Ruth whose story is told in the Book of Ruth in the Old Testament. Biblical figure; Ruth's mother-in-law
Scottish botanist who first observed the movement of small particles in fluids now known a Brownian motion (1773-1858). American geneticist and Nobel laureate
a city in southeastern Brazil that is a residential suburb of Rio de Janeiro. city in Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil
Italian pope from 1878 to 1903 who was interested in the advancement of learning and who opened the Vatican secret archives to all scholars. 256th Pope of the Catholic Church
Spanish philosopher who advocated leadership by an intellectual elite (1883-1955). Spanish liberal philosopher and essayist
a northwestern suburb of Paris; the residence of the Merovingian royalty in the 7th century. commune in Hauts-de-Seine, France
king of France from 1643 to 1715; his long reign was marked by the expansion of French influence in Europe and by the magnificence of his court and the Palace of Versailles (1638-1715). King of France and Navarra, from 1643 to 1715
English writer noted for early detective novels (1824-1889). British writer
British writer of novels about nature; one of three literary brothers (1872-1963). British writer, lecturer and philosopher
a hilly forest region in southwestern Germany. mountain range in Baden-W맚櫻틊temberg, southwestern Germany
United States abstract expressionist painter (1910-1962). American painter
the world's largest medical library. the world's largest medical library, operated by the US federal government
an Anglo-Saxon kingdom in northern England until 876. mediaeval kingdom of the Angles
Soviet chief of secret police under Joseph Stalin; was executed by his associates in the power struggle following Stalin's death (1899-1953). Georgian Soviet NKVD police chief under fellow Georgian and Soviet leader Stalin
an avatar of Vishnu. Hindu god, abstract form of Krishna
a militant organization of Irish nationalists who used terrorism and guerilla warfare in an effort to drive British forces from Northern Ireland and achieve a united independent Ireland. Irish republican paramilitary organisation
a constellation in the equatorial region of the northern hemisphere near Ophiuchus and Corona Borealis. constellation, straddling the celestial equator, consisting of two non-connected parts (Serpens Caput and Serpens Cauda)
United States musician who was the first to use the vibraphone as a jazz instrument (1913-2002). American jazz vibraphonist, pianist, percussionist, bandleader and actor
a World War I battle in northwestern France where the Allies defeated the Germans in 1918. last major German offensive on the Western Front during the First World War
Scottish philologist and the lexicographer who shaped the Oxford English Dictionary (1837-1915). Scottish lexicographer and philologist
a port in southwestern Alabama on Mobile Bay. county seat of Mobile County, Alabama, United States
United States chemist who developed methods for studying long-chain molecules (1910-1985). American chemist
French diplomat who supervised the construction of the Suez Canal (1805-1894). French diplomat and entrepreneur, developer of the Suez Canal
a town in western North Carolina in the Blue Ridge Mountains to the west of Charlotte. county seat of Buncombe County, North Carolina, United States
an Old Testament book telling Obadiah's prophecies; the shortest book in the Christian Bible. book of the Bible
city in northeast Pakistan. City of the Punjab Province
English literary critic who collaborated with C. K. Ogden and contributed to the development of Basic English (1893-1979). English literary critic and rhetorician
Italian film maker (1901-1974). Italian film director
a city in the central Netherlands. municipality in the Netherlands
capital and largest city of the modern state of Israel (although its status as capital is disputed); it was captured from Jordan in 1967 in the Six Day War; a holy city for Jews and Christians and Muslims; was the capital of an ancient kingdom. ancient city in the Judean Mountains
landlocked republic on the Balkan Peninsula; achieved independence from Yugoslavia in 1991. republic in Southeast Europe
a river that rises in the Catskills in southeastern New York and flows southward along the border of Pennsylvania with New York and New Jersey to northern Delaware where it empties into Delaware Bay. major river on the East coast of the United States of America
easternmost of the West Indies about 300 miles to the north of Venezuela. country in the Caribbean
a town in northeast Arkansas. county seat city in Craighead County, Arkansas, USA
a volcanic island in the North Atlantic near the Arctic Circle. island republic in Northern Europe
a line of latitude about 23 degrees to the north of the equator. line of latitude delineating northern border of tropics
German composer (1838-1920). German romantic composer and conductor
a campaign in the closing days of World War II in the Pacific (April to June 1945); in savage close-quarter fighting United States marines and regular army troops took the island from the Japanese; considered the greatest victory of the Pacific campaign for the Americans. major battle of the Pacific War
4th-century Chinese philosopher on whose teachings Lao-tse based Taoism. classic Chinese philosopher
German theologian who led the Reformation; believed that salvation is granted on the basis of faith rather than deeds (1483-1546). Saxon priest, monk and theologian, seminal figure in Protestant Reformation
the last Carolingian king of France (967-987). King of France
the capital and largest city of Trinidad and Tobago on the west coast of the island of Trinidad. capital of Trinidad and Tobago
a town in northwestern Canada in the Yukon on the Yukon River; a boom town around 1900 when gold was discovered in the Klondike. town
United States actor who performed with his wife Lynn Fontanne in many stage productions (1893-1977). actor
a battle between the French and an alliance of Spaniards and Swiss and Venetians in 1512. battle
Austrian philosopher who founded anthroposophy (1861-1925). Austrian esotericist
a residential town in central Connecticut. town in Hartford County,  Connecticut, United States
(New Testament) a Christian (probably living in Colossae) whose slave escaped and went to see Saint Paul. New Testament person
United States publisher who founded a printing shop that became an important book publisher (1823-1895). American printer and publisher, briefly mayor of Cambridge
Hindu god of the sky. deity
city in northern Pakistan at the eastern end of the Khyber Pass. Capital of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province
English economist noted for his studies of international trade and finance (1907-1995). British economist
a town in northeastern Tennessee. city in Tennessee, United States
King of Great Britain and Ireland and emperor of India from 1910 to 1936; gave up his German title in 1917 during World War I (1865-1936). King of the United Kingdom and the British Dominions, and Emperor of India
United States biochemist who discovered how genes act by regulating definite chemical events (1909-1975). genetics scientist
English architect who planned the city of New Delhi (1869-1944). British architect
United States composer (1910-1981). American composer
an American pioneer and guide and explorer (1734-1820). American settler
the collection of ancient rabbinic writings on Jewish law and tradition (the Mishna and the Gemara) that constitute the basis of religious authority in Orthodox Judaism. Holy Book of Rabbinic Judaism
the capital and largest city of Belgium; seat of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. federal region of Belgium comprising 19 municipalities
German mathematician who created the Klein bottle (1849-1925). German mathematician, author of the Erlangen Program
French physicist who invented polarized light and invented the Fresnel lens (1788-1827). French engineer and physicist
a large city in northwestern England; its port is the country's major outlet for industrial exports. city in Merseyside, England, United Kingdom
a large aquatic animal supposed to resemble a serpent or plesiosaur of Loch Ness in Scotland. alleged plesiosaur
Italian painter of mythological and religious paintings (1444-1510). Italian painter
a vast labyrinth built in Crete by Daedalus at the command of Minos in order to contain the Minotaur. maze-like structure from Greek mythology
(Greek mythology) one of the Titans. Titan in Greek mythology
a fictional mouse endowed with great strength and courage. American animated anthropomorphic superhero mouse
peninsula of northeastern Siberia across the Bering Strait from northwestern Alaska. peninsula in the extreme North-Eastern Russia
a former country in southeastern Asia that existed from 1954 (after the defeat of the French at Dien Bien Phu) until 1975 when it was defeated and annexed by North Vietnam. former country in southeast Asia
United States writer of hard-boiled detective fiction (1894-1961). American writer
a desert in central China. desert in China and Mongolia
United States violinist (born in Austria) (1875-1962). Austrian violinist and composer
a river that rises in eastern Kansas and flows eastward into Oklahoma to become a tributary of the Arkansas River. river in the United States of America
a town in northwest Michigan on the Upper Peninsula. county seat of Houghton County, Michigan
a Sunni organization formed in 1989 and based in Pakistan; opposes missionary groups from the United States; has Lashkar-e-Tayyiba as its armed wing. Pakistani militant group
8th President of the United States (1782-1862). American politician, 8th President of the United States (in office from 1837 to 1841)
a town and popular resort in the principality of Monaco; famous for its gambling casino. administrative area of the Principality of Monaco
a national park in Washington having rain forests of giant evergreens. U.S. national park in Washington state
United States politician and educator (1927-2003). American politician
French writer noted especially for his short stories (1850-1893). French writer
the largest Latin American country and the largest Portuguese speaking country in the world; located in the central and northeastern part of South America; world's leading coffee exporter. federal republic in South America
the Apostle who would not believe the resurrection of Jesus until he saw Jesus with his own eyes. Apostle of Jesus Christ
a street of Westminster in London. street in London, England
a large valley between the Allegheny Mountains and the Blue Ridge Mountains in northern Virginia; site of numerous battles during the American Civil War. valley and cultural region of western Virginia and the Eastern Panhandle of West Virginia in the United States
United States physicist (born in Hungary) noted for his work on the structure of the atom and its nucleus (1902-1995). mathematician and Nobel Prize-winning physicist
Finnish architect and city planner who moved to the United States in 1923; father of Eero Saarinen (1873-1950). Finnish-American architect
Persian prophet who founded Zoroastrianism (circa 628-551 BC). Persian prophet and founder of Zoroastrianism
German novelist and writer of short stories (1917-1985). German author, novelist, and short story writer
an ancient region of northern Asia Minor on the Black Sea; it reached its height under Mithridates VI but was later incorporated into the Roman Empire. region in north-eastern Anatolia
Greek lyric poet remembered for his odes (518?-438? BC). Ancient Greek poet
Emperor of Rome who was proclaimed emperor against his will; his reign was notable for his severe persecution of Christians (201-251). Roman Emperor
the western part after the Roman Empire was divided in 395; it lasted only until 476. independently administered western provinces of the Roman Empire
the small group of Quechua living in the Cuzco Valley in Peru who established hegemony over their neighbors in order to create an empire that lasted from about 1100 until the Spanish conquest in the early 1530s. empire in pre-Columbian America
British marshal of the RAF who commanded the British air defense forces that defeated the Luftwaffe during the Battle of Britain (1882-1970). British officer in the Royal Air Force
the last Holy Roman Emperor (1768-1835). also known as Francis I, Emperor of Austria
Russian ballet impresario who founded the Russian ballet and later introduced it to the West (1872-1929). Russian art critic
a city in southeast central Michigan near Detroit; automobile manufacturing. county seat of Genesee County, Michigan, United States of America
a primeval Egyptian personification of air and breath; worshipped especially at Thebes. Egyptian and Berber deity
a city of southeastern Texas near Houston. county seat of Jefferson County, Texas, United States
a river of central Italy; flows through Rome to the Tyrrhenian Sea. river in Italy
United States mathematician who contributed to the development of atom bombs and of stored-program digital computers (1903-1957). Hungarian-American mathematician and polymath
Roman scholar (116-27 BC). ancient latin scholar
United States operatic soprano (born 1927). American soprano
United States aviator and general who was an early advocate of military air power (1879-1936). United States Army general during World War I
a town in southwestern South Dakota in the eastern part of the Black Hills. county seat of Pennington County, South Dakota, United States
(classical mythology) the hideous snake-haired monsters (usually three in number) who pursued unpunished criminals. group of fictional characters
United States filmmaker (born in 1963). American film director, screenwriter, producer, and actor
a small island off the coast of Puerto Rico used for target practice by the United States Navy. island and municipality of Puerto Rico
United States physicist who contributed to the theory of the interaction of photons and electrons (1918-1988). American theoretical physicist
wife of the Hindu god Rama; regarded as an ideal of womanhood. Wife of Rama
the strait between the English Channel and the North Sea; shortest distance between England and the European continent. strait at the narrowest part of the English Channel
a city in southeastern Brazil to the northeast of Sao Paulo. city in Brazil
the area of Manhattan around the intersection of Broadway and Seventh Avenue; heart of the New York theater district; site of annual celebration of New Year's. Neighborhood and square in Manhattan, New York City
a very long narrow elevation on the ocean floor that runs all the way from Iceland in the North Atlantic to Bouvet Island in the South Atlantic. mountain range
North American republic containing 50 states - 48 conterminous states in North America plus Alaska in northwest North America and the Hawaiian Islands in the Pacific Ocean; achieved independence in 1776. federal republic in North America
Babylonian god in older pantheon: god of war and agriculture. mesopotamian deity
a city in ancient Macedonia that was important in early Christianity. ancient city  in eastern Macedonia, in the Edonis region
a mountain in the Alps on the border between Switzerland and Italy (14,780 feet high); noted for its distinctive shape. mountain in the Pennine Alps on the border between Switzerland and Italy
United States sculptor (born in France) noted for his large nude figures (1882-1935). American sculptor
(Norse mythology) wife of Thor and guardian of the home. mythical wife of Thor
an area of western Africa between the Sahara Desert and the Gulf of Guinea. westernmost region of the African continent
the land mass formed by the continents of Europe and Asia. continental landmass comprising Europe and Asia
English writer remembered particularly for his novel about Robinson Crusoe (1660-1731). English trader, writer and journalist
an inactive volcano in the Andes in central Ecuador; last erupted in 1946. active stratovolcano in central Ecuador
United States poet who wrote about California (1887-1962). American poet
Swiss naturalist who was one of the founders of modern zoology (1516-1565). Swiss naturalist
capital of the state of Nebraska; located in southeastern Nebraska; site of the University of Nebraska. city in and state capital of Nebraska, United States
a Palestinian political and military organization founded by Yasser Arafat in 1958 to work toward the creation of a Palestinian state; during the 1960s and 1970s trained terrorist and insurgent groups. major Palestinian political party
the strait between Spain and Africa. strait that connects the Atlantic Ocean to the Mediterranean Sea
a river in eastern Brazil that flows generally north to the Para River. river in Brazil
English actor and theater manager who was the foremost Shakespearean actor of his day (1717-1779). English actor, playwright, theatre manager and producer
a major European river carrying more traffic than any other river in the world; flows into the North Sea. river in Western Europe
English writer (1832-1904). British\xa0author, literary critic, and first editor of the Dictionary of National Biography
British colonial administrator who founded Singapore (1781-1826). British statesman who founded Singapore
the capital and largest city of England; located on the Thames in southeastern England; financial and industrial and cultural center. capital and largest city of the United Kingdom
a city in the Saxony region of Germany on the Saale River; a member of the Hanseatic League during the 13th and 14th centuries. city in the German state of Saxony-Anhalt
a state in the Deep South on the gulf of Mexico; one of the Confederate States during the American Civil War. state of the United States of America
a historic division of Ireland located in the northeastern part of the island; six of Ulster's nine counties are in Northern Ireland. province in Ireland
the state capital of South Australia. capital city of South Australia, Australia
the Italian region on the island of Sardinia; the kingdom of Sardinia was the nucleus for uniting Italy during the 19th century. Mediterranean island and an autonomous region of Italy
United States explorer who mapped much of the American west and Northwest (1813-1890). United States Army general and explorer
capital and largest city and major port of the Irish Republic. capital city of Ireland
Greek poet who is said to have originated Greek tragedy (sixth century BC). Ancient Greek actor and poet
(Norse mythology) goddess of love and fecundity; daughter of Njorth and sister of Frey. goddess of love in Norse mythology
the smallest republic in the world; the oldest independent country in Europe (achieved independence in 301); located in the Apennines and completely surrounded by Italy. republic on the Appenine peninsula
the biblical name for ancient Syria. region mentioned in the Bible
a landlocked republic in eastern Europe; formerly a European soviet. country in Eastern Europe
a village to the west of Alexandria on the northern coast of Egypt; the scene of a decisive Allied victory over the Germans in 1942. town in the northern Matrouh Governorate of Egypt, and also known for two battles of the WWII
Greek mathematician who was the first to try to develop an algebraic notation (3rd century). Alexandrian Greek mathematician (3rd century)
from 425 million to 405 million years ago; first air-breathing animals. third period of the Paleozoic Era
(Roman mythology) founder of Rome; suckled with his twin brother Remus by a wolf after their parents (Mars and Rhea Silvia) abandoned them; Romulus killed Remus in an argument over the building of Rome. one of the twin brothers of Rome's foundation myth
prolific Austrian composer and child prodigy; master of the classical style in all its forms of his time (1756-1791). Austrian composer of the Classical period
a river in northwestern Russia flowing generally west into the Gulf of Finland. river in Russia connecting Lake Ladoga and the Baltic Sea
Danish composer (1865-1931). Danish composer
the first Qin emperor who unified China, built much of the Great Wall, standardized weights and measures, and created a common currency and legal system (died 210 BC). First Emperor of Qin
United States poet (1892-1950). American poet
French painter noted for her portraits (1755-1842). French painter
United States psychoanalyst (born in Austria) who was the first to specialize in the psychoanalysis of small children (1882-1960). British Austrian born psychoanalyst
the Babylonian god of fire; often invoked in incantations against sorcery. sumerian deity
Italian painter (born in Greece) whose deep shadows and barren landscapes strongly influenced the surrealists (1888-1978). Italian artist
Italian pope from 1471 to 1484 who consented to the establishment of the Spanish Inquisition and built the Sistine Chapel (1414-1484). pope
Italian pope from 1800 to 1823 who was humiliated by Napoleon and taken prisoner in 1809; he concluded a concordat with Napoleon and crowned him emperor of France; he returned to Rome in 1814 (1740-1823). pope of the catholic church 1800뼰1823
the second wife of Henry VIII and mother of Elizabeth I; was executed on a charge of adultery (1507-1536). Second wife of Henry VIII of England, mother of Queen Elizabeth I of England
the hemisphere to the south of the equator. part of Earth that lies south of the equator
king of the English who succeeded Athelstan; he drove out the Danes and made peace with Scotland (921-946). Anglo Saxon monarch
a river in southeastern Canada that flows along the boundary between Quebec and Ontario to the Saint Lawrence River near Montreal. river flowing draining Abitibi-T뫜뜧iscamingue, then flowing between Ontario and Quebec, in Canada
a character in the commedia dell'arte; portrayed as a foolish old man. principal character found in commedia dell'arte
a river that rises in North Dakota and flows southward across South Dakota to the Missouri. river in North and South Dakota, US
largest city in South Dakota; located in southeastern South Dakota. city in South Dakota, United States of America
city in eastern Belgium; largest French-speaking city in Belgium. city in Li릾렎e, Belgium
a region of northeastern Italy bordering Austria. autonomous region in Northern Italy
United States astronomer who developed a theory of stellar evolution (1877-1957). American astronomer
a constitutional monarchy in northern Europe; consists of the mainland of Jutland and many islands between the North Sea and the Baltic Sea. sovereign state and Scandinavian country in northern Europe
a town in southwestern Vermont. town in Vermont, United States
British secret operative 007 in novels by Ian Fleming. fictional spy
French expressionist painter (born in Lithuania) (1893-1943). painter
a republic in southeastern Europe; formerly a European soviet; the center of the original Russian state which came into existence in the ninth century. sovereign state in Eastern Europe
United States general who commanded the American forces in Europe during World War I (1860-1948). United States Army general in World War I
king of Wessex whose military success against the Danes made it possible for his son Athelstan to become the first king of all England (870-924). Anglo-Saxon king, son of Alfred the Great
(Greek mythology) the goddess of the hearth and its fire in ancient mythology; identified with Roman Vesta. Greek goddess
United States pioneering jazz trumpeter and bandleader (1900-1971). American jazz trumpeter, composer and singer
the person who Jesus raised from the dead after four days in the tomb; this miracle caused the enemies of Jesus to begin the plan to put him to death. religious figure, died and was brought back to life
Russian novelist who wrote of human suffering with humor and psychological insight (1821-1881). Russian author
a self-governing commonwealth associated with the United States occupying the island of Puerto Rico. unincorporated territory of the United States
French missionary who accompanied Louis Joliet in exploring the upper Mississippi River valley (1637-1675). French Jesuit and explorer
a port and tourist center in southwestern Italy; capital of the Campania region. city in Campania, Italy
United States naval officer who commanded the `Constitution' during the War of 1812 and won a series of brilliant victories against the British (1773-1843). American naval officer
a group of islands in the West Indies. Archipelago bordering the north and east of the Caribbean Sea
the invasion and settlement of England by the Normans following the battle of Hastings (1066). 11th-century invasion and occupation of England
United States writer of pessimistic novels about life in a technologically advanced society (born in 1937). American novelist
Roman statesman who established the Roman Empire and became emperor in 27 BC; defeated Mark Antony and Cleopatra in 31 BC at Actium (63 BC - AD 14). founder of Julio-Claudian dynasty and first emperor of the Roman Empire
a town in northwestern Greenland; during World War II a United States naval base was built there. town in Greenland
a former country in southeastern Asia that existed from 1954 (after the defeat of the French at Dien Bien Phu) until 1975 when South Vietnam collapsed at the end of the Vietnam War. former country
a large zodiacal constellation on the equator; between Leo and Libra. zodiac constellation passing through the celestial equator
English statesman who opposed Henry VIII's divorce from Catherine of Aragon and was imprisoned and beheaded; recalled for his concept of Utopia, the ideal state. English Renaissance humanist
an industrial city in Moravia in Czech Republic to the southeast of Prague. city in the Czech Republic
a river in Virginia that flows east into Chesapeake Bay at Hampton Roads. river in Virginia, United States
the Latin edition of the Bible translated from Hebrew and Greek mainly by St. Jerome at the end of the 4th century; as revised in 1592 it was adopted as the official text for the Roman Catholic Church. Latin translation of the Bible
the capital of Nationalist China; located in northern Taiwan. capital of Taiwan
an industrial region in the Ukraine. region in eastern Ukraine
the spirit of evil in Zoroastrianism; arch rival of Ormazd. personification of the "destructive spirit" in Zoroastrianism
a city in northern West Virginia. city in West Virginia, United States
the capital and largest city of Iran; located in northern Iran. capital of Iran
English writer and editor (1873-1939). English writer and publisher
a fundamentalist Islamic group in Somalia who initially did fundraising for al-Qaeda; responsible for ambushing United States Army Rangers and for terrorist bombings in Ethiopia; believed to have branches in several countries. Islamist group in Somalia
capital of the state of New Jersey; located in western New Jersey on the Delaware river. county seat in Mercer County, New Jersey, USA and New Jerseys federated state capital city
a town in western Arkansas on the Arkansas River at the Oklahoma border. city in Arkansas, USA
an international organization that works for environmental conservation and the preservation of endangered species. non-governmental environmental organization
United States baseball player; first Black to play in the major leagues (1919-1972). American baseball player
a group of volcanic and coral islands in the central Pacific. archipelago in the North Pacific Ocean, currently administered by the US state of Hawaii, with the exception of Midway Island
Scottish philosopher and follower of Thomas Reid (1753-1828). Scottish philosopher and mathematician
a suspension bridge across the Bosporus at Istanbul. bridge on Bosphorus in Istanbul, Turkey
the vast geographical region of Europe and Asia that was controlled by the Mongols in the 13th and 14th centuries. Historical area in northern and central Asia in Middle Ages
the capital and largest city of Nicaragua. capital of Nicaragua
capital of Vanuatu. capital and largest city of Vanuatu
American Confederate general known for leading a disastrous charge at Gettysburg (1825-1875). Confederate Army general
a town that is a major tobacco center in eastern North Carolina. city in Wayne County, North Carolina, United States
German neurologist best known for his studies of aphasia (1848-1905). German physician, anatomist, psychiatrist, and neuropathologist
queen of France (as wife of Louis XVI) who was unpopular; her extravagance and opposition to reform contributed to the overthrow of the monarchy; she was guillotined along with her husband (1755-1793). last Queen of France prior to the French Revolution
an ironclad vessel built by Federal forces to do battle with the Merrimac. 1862 unique ironclad; first in United States Navy service
a vicious sectarian organization in Pakistan that persecutes Shiite Muslims and collaborates with al-Qaeda to attack foreigners and to disrupt the government of Pakistan. Wikimedia list article
English poet (1865-1945). British poet
capital of the state of Illinois. county seat in Sangamon County, Illinois, USA and Illinois federated state capital city
a communist organization formed in Cambodia in 1970; became a terrorist organization in 1975 when it captured Phnom Penh and created a government that killed an estimated three million people; was defeated by Vietnamese troops but remained active until 1999. communist party in Cambodia
capital of Germany located in eastern Germany. capital and largest city of Germany
a New York river; flows southward into New York Bay; explored by Henry Hudson early in the 17th century. river in New York State, draining into the Atlantic at New York City
industrial city at the center of a rich agricultural region. city and territorial authority on South Island, New Zealand
English biochemist who (with Watson in 1953) helped discover the helical structure of DNA (1916-2004). British molecular biologist, biophysicist, neuroscientist; co-discoverer of the structure of DNA
the last of the four Gospels in the New Testament. book of the Bible
United States inventor of vulcanized rubber (1800-1860). American inventor
Greek philosopher and mathematician who proved the Pythagorean theorem; considered to be the first true mathematician (circa 580-500 BC). ancient Greek mathematician and philosopher
from 280 million to 230 million years ago; reptiles. sixth and last period of the Paleozoic Era
(Roman mythology) god of agriculture and vegetation; counterpart of Greek Cronus. god in Ancient Rome mythology
one of the four countries that make up the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; during Roman times the region was known as Cambria. country in Northwest Europe, part of the United Kingdom
a mountainous tableland in northern South America; extends from Venezuela into Guyana and northern Brazil. 1.7 billion-year-old Precambrian geological formation in northeast South America, and one of three cratons of the South American Plate famous for the Guiana Highlands, the source of waterfalls such as Angel Falls, Kaieteur Falls and Kuquenan Falls
the constitution written at the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia in 1787 and subsequently ratified by the original thirteen states. supreme statute of the United States of America
United States physicist who won the Nobel prize for physics twice (1908-1991). American physicist and engineer
national capital and largest city of Romania in southeastern Romania. capital of Romania
a state in the Rocky Mountains. state of the United States of America
United States admiral who advocated the development of nuclear submarines (1900-1986). United States admiral
prolific and influential Spanish artist who lived in France (1881-1973). Spanish painter, sculptor, printmaker, ceramicist, and stage designer
patron saint of Wales (circa 520-600). patron saint of Wales
a large collection of African townships to the southwest of Johannesburg in South Africa; inhabited solely by Black Africans. township of South Africa
a peninsula of southwestern Alaska (a continuation of the Aleutian Islands). peninsula extending about 800 km (497 mi) to the southwest from the mainland of Alaska and ending in the Aleutian Islands
capital and largest city of Northern Ireland; the center of Protestantism in Northern Ireland. city of the United Kingdom, capital of Northern Ireland
a republic in Central America; achieved independence from Spain in 1821; noted for low per capita income and illiteracy; politically unstable. republic in Central America
(Greek mythology) a Titan who was the son of Gaea and Uranus and the father of Helios and Selene and Eos in ancient mythology. Titan in Greek mythology
British historian noted for ridicule of bureaucracies (1909-1993). British naval historian
a republic in west-central Africa; achieved independence from France in 1960. republic in Central Africa
English actress (1898-1952). English actress, singer, dancer and musical comedy performer
an American writer of fiction who won the Nobel prize for literature in 1954 (1899-1961). American author and journalist
a city in east central Colorado on the eastern edge of the Rocky Mountains; popular tourist center and site of the United States Air Force Academy. county seat of El Paso County, Colorado, United States
beneath the B-horizon and above the bedrock; consisting of weathered rock. soil layer whose physical characteristics differ from the layers above and beneath
the second of two Old Testament books telling the histories of the kings of Judah and Israel. Books of the Bible
a freeware browser for Linux. web browser
a province of western South Africa. headland of Cape Peninsula, South Africa
capital of the state of Oregon in the northwestern part of the state on the Willamette River. city and capital of Oregon, USA
English architect who played a prominent role in the 19th century revival of Gothic architecture (1812-1852). English architect and designer
United States outlaw who was said to have killed 21 men (1859-1881). American cattle rustler, gambler, horse thief, outlaw, cowboy and ranch hand
a city in west central Germany noted for cutlery. city in North Rhine-Westphalia of Germany
French artist whose rococo paintings typified the frivolity of life in the royal court of France in the 18th century (1732-1806). French painter
American colonist (born in England) who was banished from Boston for her religious views (1591-1643). participant in the Antinomian Controversy
a peninsula between the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf; strategically important for its oil resources. the largest peninsula in the world
an ancient forest in central England; formerly a royal hunting ground; said to be the home of Robin Hood and his merry band. royal forest
a Hall of Fame and museum in Cooperstown, New York, honoring great baseball players. professional sports hall of Fame in New York, U.S.
British politician (born in the United States) who was the first woman to sit in the British House of Commons (1879-1964). first female Member of Parliament to take her seat
United States linguist who studied the historical relations among 5,000 languages (1916-2001). American linguist
United States singer (1917-1995). American singer, actor, comedian and film producer
an ancient Numidian town in northwestern Africa adjoining present-day Annaba in northeastern Algeria. ancient name for Annaba, Algeria
English composer of orchestral works (1862-1934). English composer
Soviet statesman who became president of the Soviet Union (1906-1982). General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union
the capital and largest city of Bangladesh. capital of Bangladesh
a period in the 1920s when African-American achievements in art and music and literature flourished. African-American cultural movement in New York City in the 1920s
United States choreographer noted for his use of African elements (born in 1931). American dancer, choreographer and activist
English writer of novels and short stories (1913-1991). british author
vice president under Reagan and 41st President of the United States (born in 1924). American politician, 41st President of the United States.
the French part of the Riviera. Mediterranean coastline of the southeast corner of France
English paleontologist (the wife of Louis Leakey) who discovered the Zinjanthropus skull that was 1,750,000 years old (1913-1996). British paleoanthropologist
the star that is the source of light and heat for the planets in the solar system. star at the centre of the Solar System
United States architect (1902-1978). American architect
an Old Testament book consisting of proverbs from various Israeli sages (including Solomon). book of the Bible
a city in western Germany; industrial center of the Ruhr. city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany
a town in southeast Texas to the southeast of San Antonio. city in Texas
an inlet of the Baltic Sea between Latvia and Estonia. bay of the Baltic Sea between Latvia and Estonia
United States poet who traveled the country trading his poems for room and board (1879-1931). American poet
a presocratic Greek philosopher who said that fire is the origin of all things and that permanence is an illusion as all things are in perpetual flux (circa 500 BC). pre-Socratic Greek philosopher
son of Ptolemy I and king of Egypt who was said to be responsible for the Septuagint (circa 309-247 BC). sovereign (0308-0246)
English architect who designed many churches (1814-1900). English architect
a major North American river and the chief river of the United States; rises in northern Minnesota and flows southward into the Gulf of Mexico. largest river system in North America
capital of modern Macedonia. capital city of North Macedonia
part of the Pacific off the east coast of Asia. sea in Northeast Asia
United States advocate of temperance and women's suffrage (1839-1898). American suffragist
United States labor leader and militant socialist who was one of the founders of the Industrial Workers of the World (1869-1928). Labor organizer
the capital and chief port of Paraguay. capital of Paraguay
the largest Greek island in the Mediterranean; site of the Minoan civilization that reached its peak in 1600 BC. island of Greece
a city in northern Afghanistan. capital of Balkh, Afghanistan
a port city in northwestern Germany; formerly a member of the Hanseatic League. capital city of the German federated state of Lower Saxony
United States physician who first described the XXY-syndrome (born in 1912). endocrinologist
United States rocket engineer (born in Germany where he designed a missile used against England); he led the United States Army team that put the first American satellite into space (1912-1977). German, later an American, aerospace engineer and space architect
the largest coral reef in the world; in the Coral Sea off the northeastern coast of Australia. coral reef system located in the Coral Sea, World Heritage Site
a Russian principality in the 13th to 16th centuries; Moscow was the capital. country which existed in 1283뼰1547
the last Dutch colonial administrator of New Netherland; in 1664 he was forced to surrender the colony to England (1592-1672). Dutch politician
United States inventor of a dry-plate process of developing photographic film and of flexible film (his firm introduced roll film) and of the box camera and of a process for color photography (1854-1932). American entrepreneur, inventor and photographer
founder of a family of Italian violin makers (1626?-1698). Italian musician
physicist honored for advances in solid state electronics (born in Japan in 1925). Japanese physicist
an aggressive war waged by Louis XIV against Spain and the Holy Roman Empire and England and Holland and other states (1689-1697). major war (1688뼰97) between King Louis XIV of France, and a European-wide "Grand Alliance"
a personification of the United States government. personification of the United States and its government
an island in the West Indies. country in the Caribbean
Russian anarchist; ally and later opponent of Karl Marx (1814-1876). Russian revolutionary, philosopher, and theorist of collectivist anarchism
a republic in the Asian subcontinent in southern Asia; second most populous country in the world; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1947. federal republic in South Asia
United States poet (1914-1965). poet, critic, novelist, essayist
United States rock singer whose many hit records and flamboyant style greatly influenced American popular music (1935-1977). American singer and actor
United States sculptor who first created mobiles and stabiles (1898-1976). American artist (1898-1976)
French biochemist who (with Francois Jacob) explained how genes are activated and suggested the existence of messenger RNA (1910-1976). French biologist
a group of islands in the eastern West Indies. subgroup of islands in the West Indies
United States chemist who studied surface chemistry and developed the gas-filled tungsten lamp and worked on high temperature electrical discharges (1881-1957). American chemist and physicist
English statesman; member of the Conservative Party (1867-1947). former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom
English soldier killed in a rebellion against Henry IV (1364-1403). English noble
Australian operatic soprano (born in 1926). Australian soprano
British writer (born in Ireland) known primarily for her novels (1919-1999). British writer and philosopher
Spanish conquistador who defeated the Aztecs and conquered Mexico (1485-1547). Spanish conquistador
a gulf off the southwest coast of Africa. gulf on the west coast of Africa
a fortification 1,500 miles long built across northern China in the 3rd century BC; it averages 6 meters in width. series of fortifications built along the historical border of China
English novelist (born in Poland) noted for sea stories and for his narrative technique (1857-1924). Polish-British writer
United States cartoonist (born in Romania) noted for his caricatures of famous people (1914-1999). American cartoonist
battles in World War II in the Pacific (November 1943); United States Marines took the islands from the Japanese after bitter fighting. battle in the Pacific Theater of World War II, at the Tarawa Atoll in the Gilbert Islands
United States labor leader (born in Ireland) who helped to found the Industrial Workers of the World (1830-1930). Irish-born American labor and community organizer
a town in southeastern North Carolina on the Cape Fear River. county seat city in New Hanover County, North Carolina, United States
English poet remembered as author of the Canterbury Tales (1340-1400). English poet
southern and midwestern United States where Protestant fundamentalism is dominant. region in the southeastern and south-central United States in which socially conservative evangelical Protestantism is common
the capital and largest city situated centrally in Spain; home of an outstanding art museum. capital and largest city of Spain
Italian composer remembered for his operas (1792-1868). Italian opera composer
French romantic painter (1798-1863). French painter
a republic in the West Indies on the western part of the island of Hispaniola; achieved independence from France in 1804; the poorest and most illiterate nation in the western hemisphere. country in the Caribbean
a city in northern Ghana. Northen Regional capital, Ghana
British historian remembered for his ten-volume history of England (1829-1902). British historian
a town in northern Alabama on the Tennessee River. city in Morgan and Limestone counties, Alabama, United States
United States basketball forward (born in 1950). American basketball player
(Greek mythology) the prince of Troy who abducted Helen from her husband Menelaus and provoked the Trojan War. son of Priam, king of Troy
king of France who led the unsuccessful Second Crusade and fought frequent wars with Henry II of England (1120-1180). King of France
publisher of the first newspaper printed in America (1673-1713). American journalist
an island territory of Australia in the Pacific Ocean off the eastern coast of Australia; formerly a British penal colony. external territory of Australia in the South Pacific Ocean, consisting of the island of the same name plus neighbouring islands
United States writer and illustrator of children's books (1853-1911). American illustrator and author
(Greek mythology) god of the stream that flowed around the earth in ancient mythology. personification of the world-ocean in Greek myth
Italian explorer who led the English expedition in 1497 that discovered the mainland of North America and explored the coast from Nova Scotia to Newfoundland (ca. 1450-1498). Italian navigator and explorer (c. 1450 뼰 c. 1499)
an indicator of stock market prices; based on the share values of 30 blue-chip stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange. stock market index
a city in central Japan on southern Honshu; a famous cultural center that was once the capital of Japan. city in Japan
English physician who first described Down's syndrome (1828-1896). Cornish doctor and first to describe Down syndrome
an arm of the South Pacific to the northeast of Australia. Side sea of the Pacific Ocean
a town in southeast Missouri. city in Butler County in Southeast Missouri, United States
Death personified as an old man or a skeleton with a scythe. personification of death
founder of modern communism; wrote the Communist Manifesto with Engels in 1848; wrote Das Kapital in 1867 (1818-1883). German philosopher, economist, sociologist, journalist and revolutionary socialist
French advocate of Jansenism; tragedian who based his works on Greek and Roman themes (1639-1699). French dramatist
English architect (1723-1796). Scottish-Swedish architect
Irish poet and dramatist (1865-1939). Irish poet and playwright
god of agriculture and earth; counterpart of Phoenician Dagon. water deity
French educator who lost his sight at the age of three and who invented a system of writing and printing for sightless people (1809-1852). inventor of braille, a system of reading and writing used by people who are blind or visually impaired
the federal government of the United States. national government of the United States
a German Roman Catholic theologian who was an indefatigable opponent of Martin Luther (1486-1543). German theologian
religious leader who founded the Mormon Church in 1830 (1805-1844). American religious leader and the founder of the Latter Day Saint movement
United States general who commanded the Allied forces in China and Burma and India during World War II (1883-1946). United States Army general
United States dancer and choreographer (born in 1922). American dancer
city in Sudan. city in Sudan
United States computer entrepreneur whose software company made him the youngest multi-billionaire in the history of the United States (born in 1955). American business magnate and philanthropist
a region of northeastern Italy on the Adriatic. region in Italy
a former province of eastern France. former administrative region in France
United States chemist who developed nylon (1896-1937). American organic chemist
an undeciphered writing system used in Crete in the 17th century B.C.. undeciphered writing system from Crete
a national park in Alaska having Eskimo and Athapaskan archeological sites. national park of the United States
a New Testament book containing Saint Paul's second epistle to Timothy; contains advice on pastoral matters. book of the Bible
a village in western Northamptonshire. village in the United Kingdom
Egyptian god of the underworld and judge of the dead; husband and brother of Isis; father of Horus. god of the afterlife in Egyptian mythology
Hindu god of rain; sometimes identified with Indra. deity
English physiologist who conducted research on reflex action (1857-1952). English neurophysiologist and Nobel Prize recipient
a university in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. private research university in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
English lyricist who frequently worked with Andrew Lloyd Webber (born in 1944). British lyricist and author
United States geologist and ethnologist and explorer who discovered the source of the Mississippi River (1793-1864). American anthropologist
Athenian general who defeated the Persians at Marathon (540-489). athenian statesman and military hero
an island of northwestern Scotland noted for its rugged mountain scenery. largest and most northerly large island in the Inner Hebrides of Scotland
a region of central Europe rich in deposits of coal and iron ore; annexed by Prussia in 1742 but now largely in Poland. region of Central Europe now located mostly in Poland, with small parts in the Czech Republic and Germany
a New Testament book containing an epistle from Saint Paul to the Colossians in ancient Phrygia. book of the Bible
a freeware browser. web browser
British philologist (born in Germany) who specialized in Sanskrit (1823-1900). German-born philologist and orientalist
a state in the Deep South; one of the original 13 colonies. state of the United States of America
United States author who was an outspoken critic of racism (1924-1987). American writer
sinful woman Jesus healed of evil spirits; she became a follower of Jesus. follower of Jesus
a port city in southeastern Apulia in Italy; a center for the Crusades in the Middle Ages. Italian comune
an old Croatian city on the Adriatic Sea. city in Split-Dalmatia County, Croatia
an industrial city in northern Venezuela. city in Carabobo State, Venezuela
a large firth on the west coast of Britain between England and Scotland. firth that forms part of the border between England and Scotland
(Norse mythology) mythical Norse warrior hero who gains an accursed hoard of gold and was killed by Brynhild; Siegfried is the German counterpart. fictional character in Germanic and Norse mythology
English chemist (1897-1978). British chemist
English essayist and literary critic (1778-1830). English writer
United States inventor of the first rapid firing gun (1818-1903). American frearm designer
a city of southwestern Belarus. city in Belarus
the capital and largest city of Costa Rica. capital of Costa Rica
a romantic English poet whose work was inspired by the Lake District where he spent most of his life (1770-1850). English Romantic poet
the capital of Canada (located in southeastern Ontario across the Ottawa river from Quebec). capital city of Canada
wife of Franklin Roosevelt and a strong advocate of human rights (1884-1962). American politician, diplomat, and activist, and First Lady of the United States
Indonesian statesman who seized power from Sukarno in 1967 (born in 1921). 2nd President of the Republic of Indonesia
a lake in southeast Florida to the north of the Everglades. freshwater lake in the state of Florida
British philologist and writer of fantasies (born in South Africa) (1892-1973). British philologist and author, creator of classic fantasy works
English chemist and physicist who discovered palladium and rhodium and demonstrated that static and current electricity are the same (1766-1828). Scientist, physicist
United States painter who developed an American version of cubism (1894-1964). American painter
United States composer of avant-garde music (1912-1992). American avant-garde composer
(Greek mythology) any of the primordial giant gods who ruled the Earth until overthrown by Zeus; the Titans were offspring of Uranus (Heaven) and Gaea (Earth). members of the second order of divine beings in Greek mythology
a part of the western Pacific Ocean to the north of Australia and to the south of New Guinea and the eastern islands of Indonesia. sea between Australia and New Guinea
United States writer of novels based on experiences in the Klondike gold rush (1876-1916). American author, journalist, and social activist
British statesman who was prime minister from 1990 until 1997 (born in 1943). former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom
god of the underworld; counterpart of Greek Pluto. god in Greek mythology
United States politician who as governor of New York supported the project to build the Erie Canal (1769-1828). American politician
a chief of the Sioux; he was with Sitting Bull and others at the Battle of Little Bighorn (1876) when General Custer's troops were massacred (1835-1905). warchief of the Lakota tribe of Native Americans
United States slave who sued for liberty after living in a non-slave state; caused the Supreme Court to declare the Missouri Compromise unconstitutional (1795?-1858). enslaved African-American man
a chain of mountains between France and Spain. range of mountains in southwest Europe
a mountain peak in southwestern Washington in the Cascade Range (12,307 feet high). Southern Washington stratovolcano in the Cascade Volcanic Arc
United States confectioner and philanthropist who created the model industrial town of Hershey, Pennsylvania; founded an industrial school for orphan boys (1857-1945). American businessman
United States military aircraft; B- stands for bomber. strategic bomber aircraft family by Boeing
English inventor (born in the United States) who invented the Maxim gun that was used in World War I (1840-1916). American-born inventor
a Japanese city in southern Honshu; main residential suburb of Osaka. city located in Osaka Prefecture, Japan
an ancient city in northwestern Iran; known for hot springs. most populated city in northwest Iran
a city of south central Germany. city in the region of Franconia, Northern Bavaria, Germany
20th President of the United States; assassinated by a frustrated office-seeker (1831-1881). American politician, 20th President of the United States (in office in 1881)
Mexico and Central America. Cultural area in the Americas
United States philosopher of pragmatism (1863-1931). American philosopher, sociologist, and psychologist
United States actress (born in England) who married Alfred Lunt and performed with him in many plays (1887-1983). actress
the largest city of China; located in the east on the Pacific; one of the largest ports in the world. municipality of China
English physician and scientist who described the circulation of the blood; he later proposed that all animals originate from an ovum produced by the female of the species (1578-1657). English physician
Canadian actor who frequently played character parts with his wife Jessica Tandy (1911-2003). Canadian-American actor
Irish nationalist leader (1846-1891). Irish politician
(Norse mythology) chief of the Vanir; god of the sea and winds and prosperity; father of Frey and Freya; sometimes subsumes Teutonic Nerthus. one of the Vanir, a group of gods within Norse mythology
a republic in the West Indies; located on the eastern two-thirds of the island of Hispaniola. country in the Caribbean
a town in southwestern Maine to the north of Portland. city in Androscoggin County, Maine, United States
city in Tunisia. geographic region between Central Asia and the Indus River
Greek theologian who was bishop of Lyons and an antiheretical writer; a saint and Doctor of the Church (circa 130-200). Bishop and saint
Italian navigator who discovered the New World in the service of Spain while looking for a route to China (1451-1506). Italian explorer, navigator, and colonizer
a constitutional monarchy occupying the Japanese Archipelago; a world leader in electronics and automobile manufacture and ship building. constitutional monarchy in East Asia
acclaimed actress of stage and screen (1900-1993). American actress
English poet (born in 1930). English poet and children's writer
United States actress (born in Russia) (1879-1945). Actress, screenwriter and producer
the islands in the southwestern part of Oceania. subregion of Oceania
state capital of Maryland; site of the United States Naval Academy. county seat in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, USA and Maryland federated state capital city
a desert area in southern California and western Arizona. desert in southwestern United States
fictional detective in novels by Erle Stanley Gardner. fictional lawyer
Roman lyric poet said to have influenced English poetry (65-8 BC). Roman lyric poet
(Greek mythology) a wicked king and son of Zeus; condemned in Hades to stand in water that receded when he tried to drink and beneath fruit that receded when he reached for it. Greek mythological figure, son of Zeus
French revolutionary heroine (a Girondist) who assassinated Marat (1768-1793). figure of the French Revolution
United States writer remembered for his novels (1904-1979). American writer
capital city of the Piemonte region of northwestern Italy. city and commune in Italy
the capital and largest city of Denmark; located on the island of Zealand. capital city of Denmark
5th President of the United States; author of the Monroe Doctrine (1758-1831). American politician, 5th President of the United States (in office from 1817 to 1825)
first Plantagenet King of England; instituted judicial and financial reforms; quarreled with archbishop Becket concerning the authority of the Crown over the church (1133-1189). English monarch
Arab terrorist who established al-Qaeda (born in 1957). Saudi Arabian founder of al-Qaeda
Vice President of the United States under Bill Clinton (born in 1948). 45th Vice President of the United States
United States astronomer who discovered that sunspots are associated with strong magnetic fields (1868-1938). American solar astronomer
a city in northeastern Morocco near the Algerian border. City in Morocco
a prayer said 3 times a day by Roman Catholics in memory of the Annunciation. Mediaeval prayer to the Virgin Mary
(Greek mythology) god of the heavens; son and husband of Gaea and father of the Titans in ancient mythology. primordial Greek deity, god of the Sky
United States philanthropist; son of Meyer Guggenheim who created several foundations to support the arts (1861-1949). American businessman and museum founder
English general during World War II; won victories over Rommel in North Africa and led British ground forces in the invasion of Normandy (1887-1976). British Army officer, Commander of Allied forces at the Battle of El Alamein
in Hinduism, the monkey god and helper of Rama; god of devotion and courage. Hindu Deity
capital of the state of North Carolina; located in the east central part of the North Carolina. capital of North Carolina, United States
a strait connecting the Mediterranean and the Black Sea; separates the European and Asian parts of Turkey; an important shipping route. strait that forms part of the boundary between Europe and Asia
Austrian physician who tried to treat diseases with a form of hypnotism (1734-1815). German physician
United States physicist who studied the electronic structure of magnetic and disordered systems (1923-). American physicist
an extreme Marxist terrorist organization in Turkey that is opposed to NATO and the United States; attacks Turkish security and military officials. Turkish Marxist뼰깺壤냙ninist party, founded in 1978 and renamed in 1994; classified as a terrorist group by Japan, Turkey, US, UK, and EU
Byzantine general under Justinian I; he recovered former Roman territories in northern Africa and fought against the Persians. Byzantine general
a city in southwestern Pennsylvania where the confluence of the Allegheny River and Monongahela River forms the Ohio River; long an important urban industrial area; site of Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Pittsburgh. county seat in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, USA
English diarist whose diary contained detailed descriptions of 17th century disasters in England (1633-1703). English naval administrator and member of parliament
the 3rd planet from the sun; the planet we live on. third planet from the Sun in the Solar System
French writer who portrayed the human condition as isolated in an absurd world (1913-1960). French author and journalist
English astronomer who pioneered radio astronomy (born in 1913). English physicist and radio astronomer
the earliest eon in the history of the Earth from the first accretion of planetary material (around 4,600 million years ago) until the date of the oldest known rocks (about 3,800 million years ago); no evidence of life. first eon of geological time, the beginning of Earth
Roman philosopher (born in Egypt) who was the leading representative of Neoplatonism (205-270). Neoplatonist philosopher
a city in central Egypt on the east bank of the Nile that is a center for visitors to the ruins of and around Thebes. city in Egypt
Englishman and Victorian poet (1809-1892). British poet laureate
(Norse mythology) god of dawn and light; guardian of Asgard. Norse god
the capital of Cape Verde on Sao Tiago Island. capital of Cape Verde
a city in northwestern England. county town of Lancashire, England
an active volcano on north central Hawaii Island; highest peak in the Hawaiian Islands. Hawaiian volcano
a borough of New York City. borough of New York City, New York, United States
Indian physicist who with Albert Einstein proposed statistical laws based on the indistinguishability of particles; led to the description of fundamental particles that later came to be known as bosons. Indian physicist and polymath from Bengal
a town in south central Nebraska. city in Hall County, Nebraska
the republican revolution against the Manchu dynasty in China; 1911-1912. part of the Chinese civil war, culminating in Communist rule in mainland China
United States aviation pioneer who (with his brother Orville Wright) invented the airplane (1867-1912). American aviation pioneers
Swiss composer (born in France) who was the founding member of a group in Paris that included Erik Satie and Darius Milhaud and Francis Poulenc and Jean Cocteau (1892-1955). Swiss composer
the highest waterfall; has more than one leap; flow varies seasonally. waterfall in Venezuela
United States ballerina who promoted American ballet through tours and television appearances (born in 1925). American ballerina
(Norse mythology) ruler of the Aesir; supreme god of war and poetry and knowledge and wisdom (for which he gave an eye) and husband of Frigg; identified with the Teutonic Wotan. major god in Norse mythology
a desert region in northwestern Australia to the north of the Gibson Desert. desert in Northern Western Australia
a town in southwestern Idaho. city in Canyon County, Idaho, USA
king of the Visigoths who captured Rome in 410 (370-410). King of the Visigoths
British statesman who became prime minister in 1997 (born in 1953). former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom
United States educator who was the teacher and lifelong companion of Helen Keller (1866-1936). Teacher and companion of Helen Keller
the outstanding poet and dramatist of the Restoration (1631-1700). English poet and playwright
United States evangelist (born 1918). Christian religious leader, healing evangelist, author, educator, television personality
in the Arabian Nights a hero who tells of the fantastic adventures he had in his voyages. fictional sailor
a state in northwestern United States on the Canadian border. state of the United States of America
a river in Alabama formed by the confluence of the Coosa and Tallapoosa Rivers near Montgomery; flows southwestward to become a tributary of the Mobile River. river in the United States of America
French film actor (born in 1948). French actor
king of Sweden who increased the royal power and waged an unpopular war against Russia (1746-1792). King of Sweden from 1771 to 1792
an Old Testament book telling Nahum's prophecy of the fall of Nineveh. book of the Bible
(Norse mythology) a huge ash tree whose roots and branches hold the earth and Heaven and Hell together. immense tree that is central in Norse cosmology, in connection to which the nine worlds exist
Dutch economist noted for his work in econometrics (1903-1994). Dutch economist
goddess of fate: a dwarf who personified the future. norn, Norse mythical character
a town in central Minnesota on the Mississippi River; granite quarries. city in Minnesota
the Swiss Confederation escaped Hapsburg domination by their victory in 1386. battle between old switzerland confederation and Habsburg
(New Testament) a Christian missionary to the Gentiles; author of several Epistles in the New Testament; even though Paul was not present at the Last Supper he is considered an Apostle. Early Christian apostle and missionary
a decisive battle during the Napoleonic campaigns (1805); the French under Napoleon defeated the Russian armies of Czar Alexander I and the Austrian armies of Emperor Francis II. battle of the Napoleonic Wars
United States playwright (1896-1955). American writer
a region of Antarctica between Enderby Land and the Weddell Sea; claimed by Norway. Norway's territorial claim in Antarctica
the first battle of the American Revolution (April 19, 1775). first military engagements of the American Revolutionary War
a river in eastern Brazil flowing into the Atlantic Ocean. village situated at the southeast of Santiago Island, Cape Verde
United States writer (1905-1970). American journalist
Irish mathematician (1806-1865). Irish physicist, astronomer, and mathematician
United States filmmaker who with his brothers founded the movie studio that produced the first talking picture (1881-1958). American writer
a skyscraper built in New York City in 1931; 1250 feet tall. skyscraper located in Midtown Manhattan, New York City
a city in northwestern Turkey; a Thracian town that was rebuilt and renamed by the Roman Emperor Hadrian. city in Turkey
(Greek mythology) a region on the Black Sea to the south of the Caucasus that was the site of an ancient country where (according to Greek mythology) Jason sought the Golden Fleece. historical region of Antiquity
Swiss chemist who synthesized DDT and discovered its use as an insecticide (1899-1965). Swiss chemist
Roman Emperor who was the adoptive son of Trajan; travelled throughout his empire to strengthen its frontiers and encourage learning and architecture; on a visit to Britain in 122 he ordered the construction of Hadrian's Wall (76-138). Emperor of Ancient Rome
United States bacteriologist (born in Japan) who discovered the cause of yellow fever and syphilis (1876-1928). Japanese bacteriologist
English poet and dramatist considered one of the greatest English writers (1564-1616). English playwright and poet
United States showman who popularized the circus (1810-1891). American showman and politician
the second brightest star in Perseus; the first known eclipsing binary. triple star system in the constellation Perseus
English historian and son of Sir George Otto Trevelyan whose works include a social history of England and a biography of Garibaldi (1876-1962). historian
a town in northern Germany (near Hanover) that is famous as the setting for the legend of the Pied Piper. town in Lower Saxony, Germany
French cultural anthropologist who promoted structural analysis of social systems (born in 1908). Belgian anthropologist and ethnologist
English philologist who first proposed the Oxford English Dictionary (1825-1910). British lexicographer
United States anarchist (born in Italy) who with Bartolomeo Vanzetti was convicted of murder and in spite of world-wide protest was executed (1891-1927). Italian American anarchist duo executed by Massachusetts
an ancient city that was the capital of the ancient Persian Empire; now in ruins. ceremonial capital of the Achaemenid Empire
a group of islands off the west coast of Sicily in the Mediterranean. island group
a borough of New York City. borough of New York City
a Greek who was a Christian theologian active in Alexandria and who was declared a heretic for his doctrines about God (which came to be known as Arianism) (256?-336). priest in Alexandria; founder of Arianism
Emperor of Rome and founder of the Flavian dynasty who consolidated Roman rule in Germany and Britain and reformed the army and brought prosperity to the empire; began the construction of the Colosseum (9-79). Emperor of Ancient Rome, founder of the Flavian dynasty
an ancient Egyptian city on the Nile River that flourished from the 22nd century BC to the 18th century BC; today the archeological remains include many splendid temples and tombs. ancient Egyptian city
a city in western New York State at the falls of the Niagara river; tourist attraction and honeymoon resort. city in New York, USA
United States journalist who reported on the October Revolution from Petrograd in 1917; founded the Communist Labor Party in America in 1919; is buried in the Kremlin in Moscow (1887-1920). American journalist, poet, and communist activist
Dutch pioneer microscopist who was among the first to recognize cells in animals and who gave the first accurate descriptions of microbes and spermatozoa and blood corpuscles (1632-1723). Dutch tradesman and scientist
a palace that served as the residence of the popes until the 14th century. ancient palace of the Roman Empire and the main papal residence in Rome
a deep inlet of the Atlantic Ocean in Rhode Island. bay comprising 28 miles of coastline in the state of Rhode Island, USA
German physicist who formulated Ohm's law (1787-1854). German physicist and mathematician
(Norse mythology) one of the Aesir having a strong and beautiful body but a dull mind. Norse deity
fairy story: princess under an evil spell who could be awakened only by a prince's kiss. classic fairytale
English poet and courtier (1609-1642). English poet
the Babylonian god of wisdom; son of Apsu and father of Marduk; counterpart of the Sumerian Enki; as one of the supreme triad including Anu and Bel he was assigned control of the watery element. god in Sumerian mythology
a town in southwestern Washington on the Columbia River across from Portland, Oregon. city in Washington, United States and the largest suburb of Portland, Oregon
a republic in northeastern South America; formerly part of the British Empire, but it achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1966. country in South America
French painter and exponent of fauvism (1880-1954). French painter and engraver
a fictional character in Dostoevsky's novel `Crime and Punishment'; he kills old women because he believes he is beyond the bounds of good or evil. fictional character
an island in New York Bay to the southwest of Manhattan where the Statue of Liberty stands. island in the United States of America
founder of Buddhism; worshipped as a god (c 563-483 BC). philosopher, reformer and the founder of Buddhism
one of the three prairie provinces in western Canada; rich in oil and natural gas and minerals. province of Canada
a mountain peak in northwestern Wyoming; the highest peak in the Teton Range (13,766 feet high). mountain in United States of America
Norwegian painter (1863-1944). Norwegian painter and printmaker
capital of the state of Tennessee; located in the north central part of the state on the Cumberland River; known for country music. consolidated city-county in and capital of Tennessee, United States
(Old Testament) Hebrew prophet and judge who anointed Saul as king. Bible character
(Norse mythology) god of justice; son of Balder and Nanna. Norse god
French marshal in the Napoleonic Wars (1769-1815). French soldier and military commander
an industrial city is southeastern Austria. city in Styria, Austria
Jamaican singer who popularized reggae (1945-1981). Jamaican singer, songwriter, musician
a national park in Arizona having the world's largest collection of petrified coniferous trees. national park of the United States
an active volcano in eastern Congo. shield volcano in Africa
ancient city is southeastern Italy where Hannibal defeated the Romans in 216 BC. frazione of Italy
a river that rises in western Wyoming and flows southward through Utah to become a tributary of the Colorado River. tributary of the Colorado River in Wyoming, Utah, and Colorado in the United States
United States satirical novelist and literary critic (1912-1989). American writer
French writer best known for his biographies (1885-1967). French writer
the capital and largest city and chief port of Thailand; a leading city in southeastern Asia; noted for Buddhist architecture. capital of Thailand
the national capital and largest city of Rwanda; located in central Rwanda. capital of Rwanda
United States film actor (born in England) (1899-1962). English-born American stage and film actor and director
Spanish painter (1599-1660). Spanish painter
the largest city in New Jersey; located in northeastern New Jersey. most populous city in the state of New Jersey,  United States; county seat of Essex County, New Jersey
(Roman mythology) goddess of the earth; protector of marriage and fertility; identified with Greek Gaea. Roman deity
an ancient city state on the north African coast near modern Tunis; founded by Phoenicians; destroyed and rebuilt by Romans; razed by Arabs in 697. archaeological site in Tunisia
Czech author of novels and short stories (1883-1923). Czech humorist, satirist, writer and anarchist
an Islamic extremist group active since the late 1970s; seeks to overthrow the Egyptian government and replace it with an Islamic state; works in small underground cells. Wikimedia list article
a Mexican island in the Pacific to the west of Baja California. island
a suspension bridge across the channel between the lower and upper peninsulas of Michigan. suspension bridge connecting Michigan's Lower and Upper Peninsulas
the largest city in Kansas; located in southern Kansas on the Arkansas River. county seat of Sedgwick County, Kansas, United States
Danish philologist (1846-1896). Danish linguist
an epic in Latin by Virgil; tells the adventures of Aeneas after the Trojan War; provides an illustrious historical background for the Roman Empire. epic poem by Virgil
a town in east central Indiana. county seat of Delaware County, Indiana, United States
English playwright (1575-1634). English writer
a South American river; tributary of Rio de la Plata. river in South America
a walled city in northeastern Algeria to the east of Algiers; was destroyed in warfare in the 4th century and rebuilt by Constantine I. village in the district of Broye-Vully of the canton of Vaud, Switzerland
French painter and sculptor; leading figure of fauvism (1869-1954). French artist
United States writer of novels and short stories (1819-1891). American novelist, short story writer, essayist, and poet
an Islamic extremist group of Kurds who oppose secular control with bombings and assassinations; believed to have ties with al-Qaeda. political party
a town in central Pennsylvania. city in Blair County, Pennsylvania
English writer of macabre short stories (1863-1943). English author of short stories and novels
thoroughbred that won the triple crown in 1973. Thoroughbred race horse; winner of US Triple Crown of\xa0Thoroughbred Racing in 1973
physicist born in Germany who formulated the special theory of relativity and the general theory of relativity; Einstein also proposed that light consists of discrete quantized bundles of energy (later called photons) (1879-1955). German-born physicist and founder of the theory of relativity
the last emperor of a united Roman Empire, he took control of the eastern empire and ended the war with the Visigoths; he became a Christian and in 391 banned all forms of pagan worship (346-395). Roman emperor
United States novelist whose best known work was a black comedy inspired by his experiences in the Air Force during World War II (1923-1999). American author
a lake in southwestern Sweden; the largest lake in Sweden. largest lake in Sweden
a town in Upper Egypt. town in Egypt
United States writer (1914-1986). American author
a vast valley in central California known for its rich farmland. Southern part of the Central Valley in California
a desert in northern Saudi Arabia that is noted for its red sand and violent winds. desert
an Australian river; tributary of the Murray River. river in Australia
a popular expression for the countries of eastern Asia (usually including China and Mongolia and Taiwan and Japan and Korea and Indochina and eastern Siberia). geographical term
a city in southern Spain; center of Moorish culture. city in Andalusia, southern Spain
the second son of William the Conqueror who succeeded him as King of England (1056-1100). King of England
a region of Antarctica between Queen Maud Land and Wilkes Land; claimed by Australia. geographical object
United States poet (born in England) (1907-1973). Anglo-American poet
king of Sweden since 1973 (born 1946). king of Sweden
English scholar remembered for his chronology of Shakespeare's plays and his editions of Shakespeare and Dryden (1741-1812). Irish Shakespearean scholar and editor
a monarchy in northwestern Europe; headquarters for the European Union and for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. federal constitutional monarchy in Western Europe
United States civil rights leader and political activist who campaigned for equality for Black Americans (1868-1963). American sociologist, historian, activist and writer
English dramatist and pamphleteer (1572-1632). English dramatist and pamphleteer
Irish writer of novels and poetry and plays and essays (1728-1774). Anglo-Irish writer, poet, and physician
Egyptian solar god with the head of a falcon; the son of Osiris and Isis. Egyptian war deity
a desert in western China. desert in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, China
English theologian who (with John Henry Newman and John Keble) founded the Oxford movement (1800-1882). conservative churchman of the Church of England and Hebraist
a metropolitan county in northern England. county of England
(New Testament) disciple of Jesus; traditionally said to be the author of the 4th Gospel and three epistles and the book of Revelation. author of the Gospel of John; traditionally identified with John the Apostle of Jesus, John of Patmos (author of Revelation), and John the Presbyter
an autonomous province of Georgia on the Black Sea. administrative territorial entity of Georgia
the main temple of the goddess Athena; built on the acropolis in Athens more than 400 years B.C.; example of Doric architecture. temple on the Athenian Acropolis, Greece
a commercial browser. web browser developed by Microsoft
a city in central Florida; site of Walt Disney World. County seat of Orange County, Florida, United States
a geographical region of northeastern South America including Guyana and Surinam. region in north-central South America
a county in southeastern England on the English Channel; formerly an Anglo-Saxon kingdom, it was the first to be colonized by the Romans. ceremonial county in England (use Q21694674 for administrative non-metropolitan county)
a region of north central Italy bordering Switzerland. administrative region in Northern Italy
Dutch painter (1450-1516). Dutch painter
an active volcano in southwestern Mexico. mountain
a port city on the Gulf of Riga that is the capital and largest city of Latvia; formerly a member of the Hanseatic League. capital and largest city of Latvia
Norwegian explorer who led expeditions into the Arctic (1855-1930). Norwegian sailor and Arctic explorer
French composer of many operettas and an opera (1819-1880). German-born French composer, cellist and impresario
king of the Franks and Holy Roman Emperor; conqueror of the Lombards and Saxons (742-814). King of the Franks, King of Italy, and Holy Roman Emperor
a port city in northwestern Colombia on the Caribbean. Capital of the Colombian department of Bol뼻뵗ar
a city in west central Michigan; noted for manufacturing furniture. city in and county seat of Kent County, Michigan, United States
a battle in which the Danes defeated the Saxons in 991; celebrated in an old English poem. battle near Maldon, United Kingdom in 991 CE
a river of southeastern Australia; flows westward into the Murray River. river in New South Wales, Australia
English writer (1840-1893). English poet and literary critic
German statesman under whose leadership Germany was united (1815-1898). German statesman, Chancellor of Germany
the triad of divinities of later Hinduism. trinity of supreme divinity in Hinduism; personifies cosmic creation/maintenance/destruction: Brahm뫔 (creator), Vi??u (preserver), ?iva (destroyer); arose in the Puranic period as a synthesis of orthodox Brahmanism with ?aivism, Vai??avism, & ?뫔折똳ism
German sociologist and pioneer of the analytic method in sociology (1864-1920). German sociologist, philosopher, and political economist
the street in Paris along the south bank of the Seine known for its governmental ministries. thoroughfare in Paris, France
a state in midwestern United States. state of the United States of America
English physician who pioneered vaccination; Jenner inoculated people with small amounts of cowpox to prevent them from getting smallpox (1749-1823). English physician, scientist and pioneer of vaccination
a tributary of the Rio Grande that flows southeastward from New Mexico through western Texas. river in the United States of America
a city in southeastern Florida on an island between Biscayne Bay and the Atlantic Ocean; known for fashionable resort hotels. city in Miami-Dade County, Florida, United States
a city in the European part of Russia on the Volga; site of German defeat in World War II in the winter of 1942-43. city in Volgograd Oblast, Russia
United States writer and literary critic (1885-1950). American biographer
a town in central Belgium. city in East Flanders, Belgium
English philosopher who introduced the theory of the association of ideas (1705-1757). British philosopher
an artist colony in northern New Mexico. art colony founded in Taos, New Mexico
a Crusade from 1096 to 1099; captured Jerusalem and created a theocracy there. pilgrimage and military expedition by Roman Catholic Europe to Holy Lands
English biochemist who helped discover the structure of DNA (1916-2004). New Zealand-born English physicist and biologist
a major industrial center in northeastern China on the Grand Canal near the Yellow Sea; 3rd largest city in China. municipality in China
English physician who first described Hodgkin's disease (1798-1866). British pathologist
French painter who developed pointillism (1859-1891). French painter
a town on the Hudson River in New York; in 1782 and 1783 it was George Washington's headquarters. city in New York
French composer best remembered for his pop operas (1842-1912). French composer
German baroque organist and contrapuntist; composed mostly keyboard music; one of the greatest creators of western music (1685-1750). German composer and musician of the Baroque era
the largest city in Texas; located in southeastern Texas near the Gulf of Mexico; site of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. county seat of Harris County, Texas; fourth largest city in the United States by population
United States ornithologist and artist (born in Haiti) noted for his paintings of birds of America (1785-1851). American ornithologist, naturalist, and painter
United States writer (born in Russia) noted for his science fiction (1920-1992). American writer and professor
an island off the southeastern coast of Australia. island state of Australia
a former empire consisting of Great Britain and all the territories under its control; reached its greatest extent at the end of World War I; it included the British Isles, British West Indies, Canada, British Guiana; British West Africa, British East Africa, India, Australia, New Zealand. dominions of the United Kingdom
an arid sandstone plateau in northeastern Sudan between the Nile and the Red Sea. desert
an Islamic fundamentalist group in Pakistan that fought the Soviet Union in Afghanistan in the 1980s; now operates as a terrorist organization primarily in Kashmir and seeks Kashmir's accession by Pakistan. Pakistan-based Islamic militant group operating primarily in Kashmir
a major French river; flows into the Mediterranean near Marseilles. river in Switzerland and France
a state in east central United States. state of the United States of America
a battle in France in 687 among the descendants of Clovis. battle
United States railroad magnate and businessman (1835-1900). Journalist, financier
Irish writer of the horror novel about Dracula (1847-1912). Irish novelist and short story writer
United States photographer (1864-1946). American photographer
lake in northwestern Russia near the border with Finland; second largest lake in Europe. freshwater lake in Russia, second largest in Europe
the capital and largest city of Somalia; a port on the Indian Ocean. capital of Somalia
United States inventor who invented a system for recording alphanumeric information on punched cards (1860-1929). American statistician and inventor
comic dramatist of ancient Greece (342-292 BC). Athenian playwright of New Comedy
largest city in Maine in the southwestern corner of the state. county seat of Cumberland County, Maine, United States
a port city on the Pacific in northern Chile. city in northern Chile
(Old Testament) Adam's wife in Judeo-Christian mythology: the first woman and mother of the human race; God created Eve from Adam's rib and placed Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. biblical figure
United States landscape architect (born in England) who designed Central Park (1824-1895). American architect
a town in northeastern Texas. county seat of Lamar County, Texas, United States
United States writer (1909-1981). American novelist, short story writer
the largest city of Cameroon. city in Cameroon
Italian astronomer and mathematician who was the first to use a telescope to study the stars; demonstrated that different weights descend at the same rate; perfected the refracting telescope that enabled him to make many discoveries (1564-1642). Italian mathematician, physicist, philosopher and astronomer
(Greek mythology) a mythical Trojan who was killed by Achilles during the Trojan War. Greek mythological hero
a city in south-central China on the Chang Jiang; a commercial center for western China. municipality of China
a Mid-Atlantic state; one of the original 13 colonies. state of the United States of America
Italian electrical engineer who invented wireless telegraphy and in 1901 transmitted radio signals across the Atlantic Ocean (1874-1937). Italian inventor and radio pioneer
a city in northeastern New Jersey (opposite Manhattan). city in New Jersey, United States
Italian pope from 1623 to 1644 who sanctioned the condemnation of Galileo but later freed him (1568-1644). Pope
a port city of northern Poland near the mouth of the Vistula River on a gulf of the Baltic Sea; a member of the Hanseatic League in the 14th century. main city in Pomeranian Voivodeship, Poland
the brightest star in Cygnus. star in the constellation Cygnus
a port city in northeastern Venezuela on the Caribbean Sea; founded in 1523, it is the oldest European settlement in South America. capital city of Sucre, Venezuela
a Romanian resort city on the Black Sea. city in Constan?a County, Romania
39th President of the United States (1924-). American politician, 39th President of the United States (in office from 1977 to 1981)
United States architect (born in Hungary) who was associated with the Bauhaus in the 1920's (1902-1981). Hungarian-American architect
(Norse mythology) a wonderful smith; identified with Anglo-Saxon Wayland and Teutonic Wieland. Norse mythological blacksmith
Russian concert pianist who was a leading international virtuoso (1904-1989). American classical pianist and composer
Turkish sea power was destroyed in 1571 by a league of Christian nations organized by the Pope. 1571 naval battle between Holy League and Ottomans
the second largest of the Hawaiian Islands. island of the Hawaiian Islands in the Pacific Ocean
English composer of many successful musicals (some in collaboration with Sir Tim Rice) (born in 1948). British composer
the battle in 1356 in which the English under the Black Prince defeated the French. battle
British physicist (born in Ireland) remembered for his experiments on the transparency of gases and the absorption of radiant heat by gases and the transmission of sound through the atmosphere; he was the first person to explain why the daylight sky is blue (1820-1893). British scientist
French diplomat who in 1793 tried to draw the United States into the war between France and England (1763-1834). French ambassador to the United States, during the French Revolution
a wide bay of the Indian Ocean in southern Australia; notorious for storms. oceanic bight off the central and western portions of the southern coastline of mainland Australia
a parliamentary monarchy in southwestern Europe on the Iberian Peninsula; a former colonial power. constitutional monarchy in Southwest Europe
an ancient city in northern Portugal. municipality and city in Portugal
United States physicist (born in Austria) who was a discoverer of cosmic radiation (1883-1964). austrian physicist and Nobel prize laureate
a republic in southeastern Europe on the Adriatic coast of the Balkan Peninsula. republic in Southeast Europe
a gulf of the Aegean on the southeastern coast of Greece. bay
the capital and largest city of the Republic of the Congo. capital of the Republic of the Congo
a period in British history during the reign of Elizabeth I in the 16th century; an age marked by literary achievement and domestic prosperity. epoch in English history marked by the reign of Queen Elizabeth I
German playwright and leader of the Enlightenment (1729-1781). writer, philosopher, publicist, and art critic (1729뼰1781)
a port city and naval base in southeastern France on the Mediterranean coast. city in southern France and a large military harbour
United States novelist whose novels were originally banned as pornographic (1891-1980). American novelist
an island in the south Pacific; the most important island in French Polynesia; made famous by Robert Louis Stevenson and Paul Gauguin. island in the Southern Pacific Ocean
a town in eastern Wisconsin. city in and county seat of Outagamie County, Wisconsin
United States pioneer and hero of the Texas revolt against Mexico; he shared command of the garrison that resisted the Mexican attack on the Alamo where he died (1796-1836). nineteenth-century American pioneer, soldier, smuggler, slave trader, and land speculator, played a prominent role in the Texas Revolution
(Greek mythology) the wife of Cepheus and mother of Andromeda. figure in Greek mythology; queen of Aethiopia and wife of king Cepheus
a town in north central Louisiana. parish seat of Ouachita Parish, Louisiana, United States
the longest French river; rises in the Massif Central and flows north and west to the Atlantic Ocean. longest river in France
(New Testament) one of the three sages from the east who came bearing gifts for the infant Jesus. according to Christian tradition, a king of Arabia and one of the three Magi who visited Jesus and gave the gift of myrrh
United States chemist noted for his theories of molecular structure (born in 1919). Nobel Prize-winning American inorganic and organic chemist
Babylonian god of storms and wind. mesopotamian deity
a republic on the southwestern shores of the Arabian Peninsula on the Indian Ocean; formed in 1990. republic in Western Asia
French painter (born in Russia) noted for his imagery and brilliant colors (1887-1985). Belarussian-French artist and painter
a bay formed by an inlet of the East China Sea. bay in Zhejiang, People's Republic of China
an industrial city of Japan in southern Honshu. city in Aichi Prefecture, Japan
United States authority on contract bridge whose books helped to popularize the game (1891-1955). American contract bridge writer, publisher, player, and organizer
a mountain peak in the Andes on the border between Argentina and Chile (21,457 feet high). mountain in Argentina
a town in east central Iowa. city and the county seat of Clinton County, Iowa
Greek lyric poet of Lesbos; reputed inventor of Alcaic verse (611-580 BC). ancient Greek poet
English romantic poet (1772-1834). English poet, literary critic and philosopher
United States chemist and physicist who collaborated with Michelson in the Michelson-Morley experiment (1838-1923). American physical chemist
United States baseball player; a black pitcher noted for his longevity (1906-1982). American baseball player and coach; Negro Leagues
Dutch zoologist who showed that much animal behavior is innate and stereotyped (1907-1988). Dutch Zoologist, ethologist
a small constellation in the southern hemisphere near Dorado and Hydrus. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
a city in western El Salvador. Municipality in the Santa Ana Department, El Salvador.
English portrait painter and first president of the Royal Academy (1723-1792). English painter, specialising in portraits
English novelist and dramatist (1707-1754). English novelist and dramatist
a port city in Liguria on an arm of the Ligurian Sea; a major seaport and year-round resort. Italian comune
Italian conductor of many orchestras worldwide (1867-1957). Italy-born American conductor
a desert in western Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and northern Mexico. desert
United States prizefighter who was world heavyweight champion (1895-1983). American boxer
United States writer of satirical novels (1879-1958). American author
United States clockmaker who introduced mass production (1785-1859). American clockmaker
United States geneticist who studied the effects of X-rays on genes (1890-1967). American biologist
a Marxist-Leninist terrorist organization that conducted several attacks in western Europe. political party
(Greek mythology) the seducer of Clytemnestra and murderer of Agamemnon who usurped the throne of Mycenae until Agamemnon's son Orestes returned home and killed him. mythical character
a region of south central Italy. region in Italy
English statesman who supported American independence and the French Revolution (1749-1806). British Whig statesman
United States physicist who invented the bubble chamber to study subatomic particles (born in 1926). American physicist and neurobiologist
United States writer and humorist best known for his novels about Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn (1835-1910). American author and humorist
French soldier said to be fearless and chivalrous (1473-1524). French military personnel
a tidal strait separating Manhattan and the Bronx from Queens and Brooklyn. tidal strait in New York City
king of France who increased the power of the Crown over the feudal lords (1187-1226). King of French
a South American river 1,500 miles long; flows into the South Atlantic. river in South America
a city in western California located at the southern end of San Francisco Bay to the south of San Francisco; a center for computer and electronics industries. county seat of Santa Clara County, California; tenth largest city in the United States by population
a city in northeast Ohio. county seat of Mahoning County, Ohio, United States
the Greeks rebelled against Turkish rule in 1821; with the support of England and France and Russia they won independence in 1828 at Navarino (although the country included only half its present size). war of independence waged by Greek revolutionaries
a port city in western France on the Loire estuary. city in Loire-Atlantique, France
British immunologist (born in Brazil) who studied tissue transplants and discovered that the rejection of grafts was an immune response (1915-1987). scientist
English navigator remembered for his exploration of the Pacific coast of North America (1757-1798). English naval explorer
battle of World War I (1917); Italians were defeated by the Austrian and German forces. battle
English physicist (son of Joseph John Thomson) who was a co-discoverer of the diffraction of electrons by crystals (1892-1975). English physicist
the capital and largest port city of Tanzania on the Indian Ocean. city in Tanzania
(Greek mythology) the lame god of fire and metalworking in ancient mythology; identified with Roman Vulcan. Greek god of blacksmiths
a major Mexican port on the Gulf of Mexico in the state of Veracruz. Municipality of Veracruz, Mexico
Athenian statesman who persuaded Athens to build a navy and then led it to victory over the Persians (527-460 BC). Athenian statesman
King of England from 1461 to 1470 and from 1471 to 1483; was dethroned in 1470 but regained the throne in 1471 by his victory at the battle of Tewkesbury (1442-1483). King of England
United States politician responsible for the Missouri Compromise between free and slave states (1777-1852). American politician from Kentucky
the villain in William Shakespeare's tragedy who tricked Othello into murdering his wife. fictional character in William Shakespeare's Othello
United States painter of colorful and primitive rural scenes (1860-1961). American artist
queen of the Hawaiian islands (1838-1917). last monarch of the Kingdom of Hawaii
a republic in West Africa; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1961. republic in West Africa
French noblewoman who was the lover of Louis XV, whose policies she influenced (1721-1764). chief mistress of Louis XV of France
a port city in western South Korea on the Yellow Sea. city in South Korea
an arm of the South Pacific to the southwest of the Bismarck Archipelago. sea
the date of Allied victory in Europe, World War II. public holiday
German electrical engineer (1816-1892). German inventor and industrialist
a legendary Spanish nobleman and philanderer who became the hero of many poems and plays and operas. legendary, fictional libertine
a book of rules for presiding over a meeting; written by Henry M. Martin in 1876 and subsequently updated through many editions. book by Henry Martyn Robert
a city in southern Texas on the Rio Grande. border city in Texas, USA
a town in central France (south of Paris) noted for hot mineral springs; was capital of the unoccupied part of France during World War II. commune in Allier, France
English mathematician; creator of Boolean algebra (1815-1864). English mathematician, philosopher and logician
an area in central Kentucky noted for it bluegrass and thoroughbred horses. geographic region in the U.S. state of Kentucky
United States writer who has written extensively on American culture (born in 1931). American author and journalist
a grand duchy (a constitutional monarchy) landlocked in northwestern Europe between France and Belgium and Germany; an international financial center. country in Western Europe
United States industrialist who amassed a fortune in the steel industry (1849-1919). American industrialist
a W-shaped constellation in the northern hemisphere near Polaris. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
an unidentified English murderer in the 19th century. unidentified serial killer
a popular island resort in the Netherlands Antilles. island country in the Caribbean, part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands
a mountain range in northern Kashmir; an extension of the Hindu Kush; contains the 2nd highest peak. large mountain range spanning the borders between Pakistan, India and China
Inca fortress city in the Andes in Peru discovered in 1911; it may have been built in the 15th century. 16th-century Inca citadel in the Peruvian Andes and UNESCO World Heritage Site
a county in southeastern England on the Thames. county of England
a northern industrial city of China to the northwest of Beijing. prefecture-level city in China
a city in east central Mexico. city in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas
prolific Italian dramatist (1707-1793). Italian playwright and librettist
the United States (especially the northern states during the American Civil War). United States' national government and the 20 free states and five border slave states
a program of space flights undertaken by US in 1965 and 1966. NASA's second human spaceflight program
United States photographer who pioneered artistic photography (1879-1973). American photographer, artist and curator
a university town in north central Florida. county seat of Alachua County, Florida, United States
United States Air Force officer who electrified the world in 1942 by leading a squadron of 16 bombers on a daylight raid over Tokyo (1896-1993). United States Air Force Medal of Honor recipient
27th President of the United States and later chief justice of the United States Supreme Court (1857-1930). American politician, 27th President of the United States (in office from 1909 to 1913)
Englishman who as Prime Minister implemented social reforms including the abolition of slavery throughout the British Empire (1764-1845). Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland
Frenchman and Egyptologist who studied the Rosetta Stone and in 1821 became the first person to decipher Egyptian hieroglyphics (1790-1832). French classical scholar
a port in southeastern Spain on the Mediterranean. port city in southeast Spain
French author of sophisticated comedies (1622-1673). French playwright and actor
German aircraft engineer who designed the first all-metal airplane (1859-1935). German aviation pioneer
English theoretical physicist who applied relativity theory to quantum mechanics and predicted the existence of antimatter and the positron (1902-1984). theoretical physicist
French nuclear physicist who generalized the wave-particle duality by proposing that particles of matter exhibit wavelike properties (1892-1987). French physicist
a personification of frost or winter weather. personification of frost and cold weather
United States writer of humorous tales of an itinerant showman (1834-1867). American writer
United States writer (1871-1900). American novelist, short story writer, poet, and journalist
king of Wessex whose military victories made Wessex the most powerful kingdom in England (died in 839). King of Wessex
that part of the continental divide formed by the Rocky Mountains in the United States. principal hydrological divide of North and South America
English chemist who was a pioneer in electrochemistry and who used it to isolate elements sodium and potassium and barium and boron and calcium and magnesium and chlorine (1778-1829). English  chemist
United States rock singer (1943-1971). American singer
approximately the last 63 million years. third and current era of the Phanerozoic Eon
the coup d'etat by the Bolsheviks under Lenin in November 1917 that led to a period of civil war which ended in victory for the Bolsheviks in 1922. Bolshevik uprising during the Russian Revolution of 1917
(Greek mythology) a river in Hades across which the souls of the dead were carried by Charon. canyon in Greece
son of Zeus and Europa; king of ancient Crete; ordered Daedalus to build the labyrinth; after death Minos became a judge in the underworld. Greek mythology character, son of Zeus and Europa, king of Crete
English economist remembered for his studies of the development of capitalism (1880-1962). English philosopher
English actress (1882-1976). British actress
Japanese statesman who set Japan's expansionist policies and formed an alliance with Germany and Italy (1891-1945). Japanese politician
a county in northern England. ceremonial county in England (use Q21241814 for administrative non-metropolitan county)
a group of islands in the Atlantic off of the coast of Senegal. country comprising ten islands off the Western coast of Africa
an area of northern Israel; formerly the northern part of Palestine and the ancient kingdom of Israel; the scene of Jesus's ministry. large region in northern Israel
twin cantilever bridges across the Mississippi at New Orleans. twin cantilever bridges that carry U.S. Route 90 Business over the Mississippi River in New Orleans, Louisiana, US
a community of Negroid people in southern South Africa. ethnic group
United States folk singer and composer (1885-1949). American folk and blues musician
from 190 million to 135 million years ago; dinosaurs; conifers. second period of the Mesozoic Era
a historical area of northwestern England on the Irish Sea; noted for textiles. ceremonial county in North-West England (use Q21279371 for administrative non-metropolitan county)
Swiss psychologist remembered for his studies of cognitive development in children (1896-1980). Swiss psychologist, biologist, logician, philosopher and academic
a city in northwestern Switzerland. city on the Rhine, in Switzerland
United States economist noted as a proponent of monetarism and for his opposition to government intervention in the economy (born in 1912). American economist, statistician, and writer
Scottish dramatist and novelist; created Peter Pan (1860-1937). Scottish writer
a battle of the American Civil War (1863); the defeat of Robert E. Lee's invading Confederate Army was a major victory for the Union. battle of the American Civil War
United States comedian; one of four brothers who made motion pictures together (1891-1961). American comedian
English organist and composer of church music; master of 16th century polyphony; was granted a monopoly in music printing with Thomas Tallis (1543-1623). British composer
United States industrialist who manufactured and sold processed foods (1844-1919). American businessman
United States playwright who collaborated with Russel Crouse on several musicals (1889-1931). American theatrical producer, director, playwright, librettist and actor
United States architect (born in 1925). American architect
a group of volcanic islands in the South Pacific midway between Hawaii and Australia; its climate and scenery and Polynesian culture make it a popular tourist stop. country in Oceania
a city in Massachusetts just to the north of Boston; site of Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. city in Middlesex County, Massachusetts, United States
French inventor of the Jacquard loom that could automatically weave complicated patterns (1752-1834). French inventor
the state capital and largest city of Arkansas in the central part of Arkansas on the Arkansas River. capital of Arkansas, United States
an island in West Indies just off the northeastern coast of Venezuela. larger of the two major islands which make up Trinidad and Tobago
a city in southwestern Tanzania. city en Tanzania
a former province of eastern France that is famous for its wines. former administrative region of France
an arm of the Indian Ocean to the east of India. part of the Indian Ocean between South and South East Asia
the stock exchange in Paris. Securities market located in Paris, France
a state in east central United States; a border state during the American Civil War; famous for breeding race horses. state of the United States of America
Palestinian statesman who was chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization (1929-2004). former Palestinian President, and Nobel Peace Prize recipient
a river of western Thailand flowing southward to join the Ping River to form the Chao Phraya. river in Thailand
the capital and largest city of Wyoming; located in the southeastern corner of the state. county seat in Laramie County, Wyoming, USA and Wyomings federated state capital city
United States industrialist who was an aviator and a film producer; during the last years of his life he was a total recluse (1905-1976). American aviator, engineer, industrialist, and film producer
grandson of Henry Ford (1917-1987). American automotive industry executive
a militant Islamic militia that was formed in 2005 by hardliners who split from Jemaah Islamiyah. Darul Islam Indonesian organisation
United States economist and psychologist who pioneered in the development of cognitive science (1916-2001). American political scientist, economist, sociologist, and psychologist
English poet and husband of Elizabeth Barrett Browning noted for his dramatic monologues (1812-1889). English poet and playwright of the Victorian Era
a peninsula in northern Siberia. peninsula
a town in northeastern Kansas on the Kansas River; scene of raids by John Brown in 1856. city in Kansas, United States
a town in southwest Illinois on the Mississippi across from Saint Louis. city in St. Clair County, Illinois
United States composer who incorporated jazz into classical forms and composed scores for musical comedies (1898-1937). American composer and pianist
United States mathematician and astronomer noted for his works on navigation (1773-1838). American astronomer and mathematician who founded modern navigation
Israeli violinist (born in 1948). Israeli violinist, violist, and conductor
United States labor leader (born in England) who was president of the American Federation of Labor from 1886 to 1924 (1850-1924). American labor leader (AFL)
the capital and largest city of the Dominican Republic. capital of the Dominican Republic
Flemish painter of landscapes (1525-1569). Flemish painter
a port and resort city on the French Riviera; site of an annual film festival. commune in Alpes-Maritimes, France
an Australian state on the island of Tasmania. island state of Australia
United States composer (born in Australia) who lived in London and collected English folk songs (1882-1961). Australian composer, arranger and pianist
United States physicist (born in Germany) noted for her research on the structure of the atom (1906-1972). German-born American theoretical physicist
Polish pianist who in 1919 served as the first Prime Minister of independent Poland (1860-1941). Polish composer
(New Testament) supposed brother of St. James; one of the Apostles who is invoked in prayer when a situation seems hopeless. one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus; traditionally identified with Jude the brother of Jesus
the title character in a German folk tale and in a poem by Robert Browning. fairy tale
a disciple of and secretary for the prophet Jeremiah. biblical character
a mountain range in western China that extends eastward from the Indian border for 1000 miles. mountain range in China
French composer noted for his experimentalism and rejection of Romanticism (1866-1925). French composer and pianist
a region of western India to the north of Bombay (bordering the Arabian Sea) where Gujarati is spoken. state of India
United States novelist (originally Falkner) who wrote about people in the southern United States (1897-1962). American writer
a river in southern Florida that flows westerly to the Gulf of Mexico; forms the western end of the Cross-Florida Waterway. river on the southwest Gulf Coast of Florida in the United States
United States reformer who led moral crusades against art and literature that he considered obscene (1844-1915). American political writer
Israeli statesman (born in Poland) and active Zionist who organized resistance against the British after World War II; prime minister of Israel (1886-1973). Israeli politician, Zionist leader, prime minister of Israel
a town in southeastern Alaska at the northern end of the Inside Passage; a gateway to the Klondike during the Alaskan gold rush. city in Alaska, United States
a federal warning system that is activated by FEMA; enables the President to take over the United States airwaves to warn the whole country of major catastrophic events. method of emergency broadcasting in the United States
the fictional character of a rabbit who appeared in tales supposedly told by Uncle Remus and first published in 1880. fictional rabbit in Uncle Remus folklore
a Marxist and Maoist terrorist organization in Germany; a network of underground guerillas who committed acts of violence in the service of the class struggle; a successor to the Baader-Meinhof Gang; became one of Europe's most feared terrorist groups; disbanded in 1998. militant group in West-Germany
a republic on the island of Malta in the Mediterranean; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1964. island republic in Europe
the largest moon of Neptune. largest moon of Neptune
large hairy humanoid creature said to live in wilderness areas of the United States and Canada. 1970 film by Robert Slatzer
German politician in Nazi Germany who founded the Gestapo and mobilized Germany for war (1893-1946). German politician and military leader
the revolution against the czarist government which led to the abdication of Nicholas II and the creation of a provisional government in March 1917. 20th-century revolution leading to the downfall of the Russian monarchy
the French defeated the Austrian and Prussian troops in 1792 (with a famous cannonade from the French artillery). victory by the army of France during the Revolutionary Wars that followed to Sheila the French Revolution
Athenian statesman whose leadership contributed to Athens' political and cultural supremacy in Greece; he ordered the construction of the Parthenon (died in 429 BC). ancient Greek statesman, orator, and general of Athens
United States film actress who appeared in films by D. W. Griffith (1896-1993). American actress
a mountain in the Andes in Peru (22,205 feet high). mountain in the Peruvian province of Yungay
United States biochemist who discovered cortisone (1886-1972). American chemist
English explorer and admiral who was the first Englishman to circumnavigate the globe and who helped to defeat the Spanish Armada (1540-1596). English sea captain, privateer, navigator, slaver, and politician of the Elizabethan era
an Old Testament book telling how a Jewish official at the court of Artaxerxes I in 444 BC became a leader in rebuilding Jerusalem after the Babylonian Captivity. book of the Bible
United States labor leader who was president of the Teamsters Union; he was jailed for trying to bribe a judge and later disappeared and is assumed to have been murdered (1913-1975). American labor leader
a picturesque coastal region of California to the south of San Francisco. region of the central coast of California
a port city in southwestern France; a major center of the wine trade. commune in Gironde, France
the major waterway in Venice, Italy. canal and major water-traffic corridor in Venice, Italy
king of ancient Macedonia and father of Alexander the Great (382-336 BC). Macedonian monarch
an ancient country and wine producing region in the east of the Balkan Peninsula to the north of the Aegean Sea; colonized by ancient Greeks; later a Roman province; now divided between Bulgaria and Greece and Turkey. kingdom of Thracians
United States inventor; inventions included the phonograph and incandescent electric light and the microphone and the Kinetoscope (1847-1931). American inventor and businessman
United States architect (born in Germany) who built unornamented steel frame and glass skyscrapers (1886-1969). German architect
English editor who in 1818 published an expurgated edition of the works of Shakespeare (1754-1825). English physician and editor
a river in southeastern Australia that flows generally northwest to join the Darling River. river in Australia
United States writer noted for his typographically eccentric poetry (1894-1962). American poet
the building in which the House of Commons and the House of Lords meet. meeting place of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, located in London, England
a strait in western California that connects the San Francisco Bay with the Pacific Ocean; discovered in 1579 by Sir Francis Drake. North American strait
a town in southeast Georgia near the Atlantic coast; a port of entry. city in Georgia, United States
a republic in West Africa; established in 1822 by Americans as a way to free negro slaves. republic in West Africa
a region of the eastern United States comprising New York and New Jersey and Pennsylvania and Delaware and Maryland. region of the United States
Italian pope from 1198 to 1216 who instituted the Fourth Crusade and under whom papal intervention in European politics reached its height (1161-1216). Medieval pope
thoroughbred that won the triple crown in 1937. Thoroughbred race horse; winner of U.S. Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing in 1937
an industrial city in south central India (west of Chennai). city in Karnataka, India
Octavian and Mark Antony defeated Brutus and Cassius in 42 BC. battle of the Roman civil war
(Greek mythology) a queen of Sparta who was raped by Zeus who had taken the form of a swan; Helen of Troy was conceived in the rape of Leda. mythical character
French pirate who aided the United States in the War of 1812 and received an official pardon for his crimes (1780-1826). French pirate and privateer
the territory of Athens in ancient Greece where the Ionic dialect was spoken. historical region of Greece
provincial capital of the Northern Territory of Australia. capital city of the Northern Territory, Australia
English physicist who studied the density of gases and discovered argon; made important contributions to acoustic theory (1842-1919). English physicist
United States chemist honored for synthesizing complex organic compounds (1917-1979). American chemist
King of the Germans and Holy Roman Emperor (1050-1106). Holy Roman Emperor
from 40 million to 25 million years ago; appearance of sabertoothed cats. third epoch of the Paleogene period
English physicist and electrical engineer who helped develop telegraphic and telephonic communications; in 1902 (independent of A. E. Kennelly) he suggested the existence of an atmospheric layer that reflects radio waves back to earth (1850-1925). electrical engineer, mathematician and physicist
a republic in western Africa on the Atlantic; formerly a French colony; achieved independence from France in 1958. country in Africa
a city in southern Japan on Kyushu; a leading port and shipbuilding center; on August 9, 1945 Nagasaki became the second populated area to receive an atomic bomb. capital Nagasaki Prefecture on the island of Kyushu in Japan
Italian poet considered the national poet of modern Italy (1835-1907). Italian poet and teacher
(Greek mythology) son of Hermes and Aphrodite who merged with the nymph Salmacis to form one body. son of Aphrodite and Hermes in Greek mythology
a region (and former kingdom) in northwestern Spain on the Atlantic and the Bay of Biscay. Autonomous community of Spain
King of France who began his reign with most of northern France under English control; after the intervention of Jeanne d'Arc the French were able to defeat the English and end the Hundred Years' War (1403-1461). monarch of the House of Valois who ruled as King of France
(Greek mythology) the Muse of history. Greek mythological person, muse of history or of lyre playing, daughter of Zeus and the Titaness Mnemosyne
ancient Greek philosopher who formulated paradoxes that defended the belief that motion and change are illusory (circa 495-430 BC). ancient Greek philosopher, mostly known for his eponym paradoxes
originally a stronghold captured by David (the 2nd king of the Israelites); above it was built a temple and later the name extended to the whole hill; finally it became a synonym for the city of Jerusalem. hill
a republic in southeastern Europe with a short coastline on the Black Sea. sovereign state in Europe
a river in north central Switzerland that runs northeast into the Rhine. river in Switzerland and tributary of the Rhine
a leading German painter and engraver of the Renaissance (1471-1528). German painter, printmaker, mathematician, and theorist
a river in northern Italy that flows southeast into the Adriatic Sea. river in Northern Italy
a town in southeastern Northern Ireland. town in Northern Ireland, United Kingdom
Roman philosopher and poet; in a long didactic poem he tried to provide a scientific explanation of the universe (96-55 BC). Roman poet and philosopher
the United States Navy's defense laboratory that conducts basic and applied research for the Navy in a variety of scientific and technical disciplines. corporate research laboratory for the United States Navy and the United States Marine Corps
Belgian composer (1532-1594). Franco-Flemish composer
Swedish diplomat who greatly extended the influence of the United Nations in peacekeeping matters (1905-1961). Swedish diplomat, economist, and author
United States railroad executive who built the western section of the first United States transcontinental railroad (1821-1900). American businessman
king of France and son of Louis VIII; he led two unsuccessful Crusades; considered an ideal medieval king (1214-1270). King of France
Sauk leader who aided the United States against Black Hawk (1790-1848). Sauk leader
the region around the south pole: Antarctica and surrounding waters. polar continent
the second largest of the four main islands of Japan; to the north of Honshu. one of the main islands of Japan
a communist state in the Caribbean on the island of Cuba. country in the Caribbean
a faint constellation in the northern hemisphere near Cassiopeia and the pole star. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
a national park in Hawaii including a dormant volcano. national park of the United States
first wife of Henry VIII; Henry VIII's divorce from her was the initial step of the Reformation in England (1485-1536). first wife of Henry VIII of England (1485뼰1536)
United States showman whose song-and-dance troop evolved into a circus (1863-1926). American circus proprietor
an Apocryphal book mainly of maxims (resembling Proverbs in that respect). one of Deuterocanonical books
islands west of Sicily (now known as the Egadi Islands) where the Romans won a naval victory over the Carthaginians that ended the first Punic War in 241 BC. island group
United States writer of thrillers (born in 1925). American novelist and screenwriter
a large national park in Texas featuring mountains and desert and canyons and wildlife. U.S. national park located in Southern Texas, bordering Mexico
King of England from 1901 to 1910; son of Victoria and Prince Albert; famous for his elegant sporting ways (1841-1910). King of the United Kingdom and the British Dominions and Emperor of India
United States poet (1874-1925). US writer
a republic at the southernmost part of Africa; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1910; first European settlers were Dutch (known as Boers). republic in Southern Africa
English dramatist whose plays are characterized by silences and the use of inaction (born in 1930). English playwright
the regions of the world that were known to Europeans before the discovery of the Americas. collectively Africa, Europe, and Asia
one of the three prairie provinces in central Canada. province of Canada
a street in west central London famous for its theaters and hotels. major thoroughfare in the City of Westminster, London, England
a port city in southern England on the English Channel; Britain's major naval base. city in Hampshire, England
a presocratic Greek philosopher and student of Thales who believed the universal substance to be infinity rather than something resembling ordinary objects (611-547 BC). pre-Socratic Greek philosopher
American navigator who twice circumnavigated the globe and who discovered the Columbia River (1755-1806). American merchant sea captain
American chemist who with Robert Curl and Harold Kroto discovered fullerenes and opened a new branch of chemistry (born in 1943). American chemist
United States chemist who developed a method of radiocarbon dating (1908-1980). American physical chemist
an English translation of the Bible published in 1611. version of the Bible
Holy Roman Emperor and king of Hungary and Bohemia who signed the Peace of Westphalia ending the Thirty Years' War (1608-1657). Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire
a town in north central Iowa. city in Cerro Gordo County, Iowa
a state containing the western third of Australia. state in Australia
United States filmmaker (born in 1947). American film director, screenwriter, producer, video game designer, and studio entrepreneur
a city in central Virginia. independent city in Virginia, United States
a port city on the Caspian Sea that is the capital of Azerbaijan and an important center for oil production. capital of Azerbaijan
United States writer best known for his autobiographical works (1874-1935). American writer
German composer of many operas; collaborated with librettist Hugo von Hoffmannsthal to produce several operas (1864-1949). German composer and orchestra director
United States astronomer who discovered that (as the universe expands) the speed with which nebulae recede increases with their distance from the observer (1889-1953). American astronomer
a state in south central United States. state of the United States of America
Italian pope from 1691 to 1700 who abolished nepotism within the church hierarchy and was universally loved for his charity and piety. pope
a city in southern Japan on Kyushu. capital city of Fukuoka Prefecture, Japan
port city in western Saudi Arabia on the Red Sea; near Mecca. city in western Saudi Arabia
a national park in North Dakota that includes the site of former President Theodore Roosevelt's ranch. United States National Park in western North Dakota
Vietnamese diplomat who negotiated with Henry Kissinger to end the war in Vietnam (1911-1990). Vietnamese diplomat
award-winning United States film actor (1928-1999). American actor, film director and producer
Spanish explorer who was the first European to explore the California coast (1550-1615). Spanish explorer
a city in northwestern Mexico near the Gulf of California. city in Mexico, Sonora state capital
a shallow lake in northwestern Netherlands created in 1932 by building a dam across the entrance to the Zuider Zee. lake in the Netherlands
a kingdom (constitutional monarchy) in northwestern Africa with a largely Muslim population; achieved independence from France in 1956. country in North Africa
United States historian noted for studies of Black American history (born in 1915). American historian
a group of coral islands in Micronesia to the southwest of Hawaii. country in Oceania
United States chemist who was one of the discoverers of plutonium (1912-1999). American scientist
a terrorist group formed in the 1980s in Sierra Leone; seeks to overthrow the government and gain control of the diamond producing regions; responsible for attacks on civilians and children, widespread torture and murder and using children to commit atrocities; sponsored by the president of Liberia. political party
an indecisive battle in 1859 between the French and Sardinians under Napoleon III and the Austrians under Francis Joseph I. Major battle of the Second Italian War of Independence
United States dramatist (1928-). American playwright
English tennis player who won many women's singles titles (born in 1945). British tennis player
United States anthropologist noted for her claims about adolescence and sexual behavior in Polynesian cultures (1901-1978). American anthropologist
German organic chemist who studied alcoholic fermentation and discovered zymase (1860-1917). German chemist (1907 Nobel Prize)
the southwestern region of the United States generally including New Mexico, Arizona, Texas, Nevada, California, and sometimes Utah and Colorado. Geographical region of the USA
consort of Dumuzi (Tammuz). Sumerian goddess
German naturalist who explored Central and South America and provided a comprehensive description of the physical universe (1769-1859). Prussian geographer, naturalist and explorer
Confederate general during the American Civil War who was defeated by Grant in the battle of Chattanooga (1817-1876). Confederate Army general
an amendment to the Constitution of the United States that imposes restrictions on the government's prosecution of persons accused of crimes; mandates due process of law and prohibits self-incrimination and double jeopardy; requires just compensation if private property is taken for public use. amendment guaranteeing certain rights related to trials and due process
capital and largest city of Italy; on the Tiber; seat of the Roman Catholic Church; formerly the capital of the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire. capital and largest city of Italy
United States comedian; one of four brothers who made motion pictures together (1901-1979). American film star and member of the Marx Brothers
a lake in the Great Rift Valley between Congo and Uganda. smallest of the African Great Lakes
French criminologist (1853-1914). French forensic scientist
a headstream of the Nile; joins the White Nile at Khartoum to form the Nile. river in Africa and tributary of the Nile River
a movement in Europe from about 1650 until 1800 that advocated the use of reason and individualism instead of tradition and established doctrine. European cultural movement of the 18th century
the capital and largest city of Chile; located in central Chile; one of the largest cities in South America. capital city of Chile
Scottish insurgent who led the resistance to Edward I; in 1297 he gained control of Scotland briefly until Edward invaded Scotland again and defeated Wallace and subsequently executed him (1270-1305). Scottish landowner and leader in the Wars for Scottish Independence
an arm of the Pacific to the east of Asia. marginal sea
from 500 million to 425 million years ago; conodonts and ostracods and algae and seaweeds. second period of the Paleozoic Era
an island in the West Indies to the south of Cuba and to the west of Haiti. country in the Caribbean
an ancient area of Eurasia extending from the Black Sea to the Aral Sea that was populated by Scythians from the eighth to the fourth century BC. multinational region of Central Eurasia in the classical era
an Apocryphal book of angelic revelations. apocalyptic book, preserved in Latin as an appendix to the Vulgate; tripartite work consisting of 5 Ezra (a Christian work), 4 Ezra (a Jewish apocalypse), and 6 Ezra (predicts wars and rebukes sinners; perhaps Christian)
a city on an offshore island in northeast Brazil. city of the Brazilian state of Maranh?o
United States film actress (born in Sweden) known for her reclusiveness (1905-1990). Swedish-American actress
German physicist who with Bunsen pioneered spectrum analysis and formulated two laws governing electric networks (1824-1887). German physicist
the fictional Swiss scientist who was the protagonist in a gothic novel by Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley; he created a monster from parts of corpses. character originally of Mary Shelley's 1818 novel Frankenstein
according to legend, the seventh and last Etruscan king of Rome who was expelled for his cruelty (reigned from 534 to 510 BC). King of Rome
a mountain in the Himalayas in Nepal (26,500 feet high). mountain range in the Himalayas
a city in southeastern Germany famous for fairs; formerly a music and publishing center. city in Saxony, Germany
United States physicist and molecular biologist who helped develop the first atom bomb and later opposed the use of all nuclear weapons (1898-1964). Physicist and biologist
French general who commanded French troops in the American Revolution, notably at Yorktown (1725-1807). French noble
Italian operatic composer (1813-1901). Italian opera composer
United States scat singer (1917-1996). American jazz singer
the largest city in Michigan and a major Great Lakes port; center of the United States automobile industry; located in southeastern Michigan on the Detroit river across from Windsor. most populous city in Michigan, United States; county seat of Wayne County
German mathematician responsible for the Mobius strip (1790-1868). German mathematician and astronomer
a city of east central Netherlands; a popular tourist center and site of the summer residence of the Dutch royal family. municipality in the Netherlands
a Greek epic poem (attributed to Homer) describing the journey of Odysseus after the fall of Troy. epic poem attributed to Homer
a hypothetical continent that (according to plate tectonic theory) broke up later into India and Australia and Africa and South America and Antarctica. prehistorical supercontinent
English printer who in 1474 printed the first book in English (1422-1491). English merchant, diplomat, writer and printer
the fourth son of Edward III who was the effective ruler of England during the close of his father's reign and during the minority of Richard II; his son was Henry Bolingbroke (1340-1399). English magnate of the House of Plantagenet
Hindu god of death and lord of the underworld. lord of death in Hindu Religion
(Hinduism) the sacred `song of God' composed about 200 BC and incorporated into the Mahabharata (a Sanskrit epic); contains a discussion between Krishna and the Indian hero Arjuna on human nature and the purpose of life. A scripture of the Hindus in Sanskrit
Japanese sleuth created by John Marquand. fictional Japanese secret agent created by John P. Marquand
a region of northeastern France. former administrative region in France
Italian composer of operas (1801-1835). Italian opera composer
a Swiss chemist born in Poland; studied the hormones of the adrenal cortex. Polish chemist
a city in southwestern Indiana on the Ohio River. county seat of Vanderburgh County, Indiana, United States
part of the Pacific Ocean near eastern Asia. marginal sea of the Pacific Ocean
British political cartoonist (born in New Zealand) who created the character Colonel Blimp (1891-1963). British cartoonist
an inactive volcano in western Cameroon; highest peak on the West African coast. republic in West Africa
(Old Testament) a son of Jacob and a forebear of one of the tribes of Israel. biblical character
Austrian born psychoanalyst who lived in the United States; advocated sexual freedom and believed that cosmic energy could be concentrated in a human being (1897-1957). Austro-Hungarian-born Austrian-American psychoanalyst
a borough of Greater London on the Thames; zero degrees of longitude runs through Greenwich; time is measured relative to Greenwich Mean Time. town in south-east London, England
an ancient Greek philosopher and Cynic who rejected social conventions (circa 400-325 BC). ancient Greek philosopher, one of the founders of the Cynic philosophy
Austrian writer (1881-1942). Austrian writer (1881-1942)
a conspicuous constellation in the northern hemisphere; between Great Bear and Orion at edge of Milky Way. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
a Mexican state on the eastern side of the Yucatan Peninsula. state of Mexico
legendary English outlaw of the 12th century; said to have robbed the rich to help the poor. heroic outlaw in English folklore, a highly skilled archer and swordsman
Flemish geographer who lived in Germany; he invented the Mercator projection of maps of the globe (1512-1594). Dutch cartographer, philosopher and mathematician
British statesman who as Prime Minister bought controlling interest in the Suez Canal and made Queen Victoria the empress of India (1804-1881). British Conservative politician, writer, aristocrat and Prime Minister
Indian writer and philosopher whose poetry (based on traditional Hindu themes) pioneered the use of colloquial Bengali (1861-1941). Bengali poet and philosopher
United States photographer (born in Germany) whose unposed documentary photographs created photojournalism (born in 1898). American photojournalist
a mountain range in northwestern Mexico that runs south from Arizona parallel to the Pacific coastline. mountain range
United States painter best known for his seascapes (1836-1910). American painter
the Italian region on the island of Sicily. region of Italy
the first of two Old Testament books telling the history of Judah and Israel until the return from the Babylonian Captivity in 536 BC. the final books of the Jewish bible
a state in southern Germany famous for its beer; site of an automobile factory. state in Germany
an Asian river; flows into the Bay of Bengal. river in Pakistan, New-Zealand,USA
(Roman mythology) virgin goddess of the hunt and the Moon; counterpart of Greek Artemis. goddess of the hunt, the moon and birthing, equated with the Greek goddess Artemis
French novelist; he portrays the complexity of 19th century French society (1799-1850). French writer
either of two wars: the first when the Boers fought England in order to regain the independence they had given up to obtain British help against the Zulus (1880-1881); the second when the Orange Free State and Transvaal declared war on Britain (1899-1902). war between two Boer Republics (South African Republic and Orange Free State) and the United Kingdom
Egyptian goddess associated with ritual of the dead; sister of Geb and Nut; wife of Set. Egyptian deity
United States lawyer involved in several famous court trials (1881-1954). American lawyer
prolific Austrian composer who influenced the classical form of the symphony (1732-1809). Austrian composer
Belgian playwright (1862-1949). Belgian playwright, poet, and essayist
a town in northern Utah settled by Mormons. city in Weber County, Utah, United States
Mexican painter of murals depicting protest and revolution (1896-1974). Mexican painter
French novelist and dramatist whose plays were reinterpretations of Greek myths (1882-1944). French novelist, essayist, diplomat and playwright
island country in the Atlantic to the east of Florida and Cuba; a popular winter resort. country in North America
United States industrialist and philanthropist who endowed education and public libraries and research trusts (1835-1919). American businessman and philanthropist
(Greek mythology) a friend of Achilles who was killed in the Trojan War; his death led Achilles to return to the fight after his quarrel with Agamemnon. mythological Greek character
the ship in which the Pilgrim Fathers sailed from England to Massachusetts in 1620. Famous ship of the 17th century
United States writer of popular detective novels (born in 1918). American writer
(Old Testament) Cain and Abel were the first children of Adam and Eve born after the Fall of Man; Abel was killed by Cain. Biblical figures
a river in central California that rises in the Sierra Nevada and flows northwest to form a large delta with the Sacramento River. river in California, United States
a small town in east central New York; site of the National Baseball Hall of Fame. village in Otsego County, New York, United States
a line of latitude near but to the south of the north pole; it marks the northernmost point at which the sun is visible on the northern winter solstice and the southernmost point at which the midnight sun can be seen on the northern summer solstice. polar circle in the northern hemisphere
earlier a god; later a demon; counterpart of Zoroastrian Ahura. Mythical beings, demi-gods, demons in Indian religions
a Catholic priest who was the hero of detective stories by G. K. Chesterton. character created by G. K. Chesterton
soldier of the American Revolution (1756-1818). American politician, governor and representative
a town in northwest Wisconsin on Lake Superior across from Duluth. city in and county seat of Douglas County, Wisconsin
United States entomologist who has generalized from social insects to other animals including humans (born in 1929). U.S. biologist and author
the highest peak in the Sierra Nevada range in California (14,494 feet high). mountain in Sierra Nevada, California
a town in western Wisconsin on the Mississippi River. city in and county seat of La Crosse County, Wisconsin
an island in the Gulf of Guinea that is part of Sao Tome and Principe. island off of the coast of Africa
Swedish film actress (1915-1982). Swedish actress
a port city in western Mexico on the Pacific Ocean; tourist center. city in the Mexican state of Sinaloa
a state in northern Mexico; mostly high plateau. state of Mexico
Roman Emperor who when faced with military problems decided in 286 to divide the Roman Empire between himself in the east and Maximian in the west; he initiated the last persecution of the Christians in 303 (245-313). Roman Emperor from 284 to 305 A.C.N.
French paleontologist and philosopher (1881-1955). French philosopher and Jesuit priest
(Sanskrit) an ancient medical treatise summarizing the Hindu art of healing and prolonging life; sometimes regarded as a 5th Veda. system of medicine with historical roots in the Indian subcontinent
the ninth sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about November 22 to December 21. zodiac constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
British physician who discovered that mosquitos transmit malaria (1857-1932). Indian-born British medical doctor and Nobel laureate
British artist and writer of nonsense verse (1812-1888). British artist, illustrator, author and poet
an island in the center of the Windward Islands; the largest of the islands comprising Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. island of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
English scientist (cousin of Charles Darwin) who explored many fields including heredity, meteorology, statistics, psychology, and anthropology; founder of eugenics and first to use fingerprints for identification (1822-1911). English polymath: geographer, statistician, pioneer in eugenics
Austrian neurologist who originated psychoanalysis (1856-1939). Austrian neurologist known as the founding father of psychoanalysis
French artist who immigrated to the United States; a leader in the dada movement in New York City; was first to exhibit commonplace objects as art (1887-1968). French painter and sculptor
Italian philosopher who used Copernican principles to develop a pantheistic monistic philosophy; condemned for heresy by the Inquisition and burned at the stake (1548-1600). Italian Dominican friar, philosopher, mathematician, cosmological theorist, and poet
Italian pope from 1963 to 1978 who eased restrictions on fasting and on interfaith marriages (1897-1978). Pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 1963 to 1978
English writer on card games (1672-1769). British whist authority
French couturier (born in England) regarded as the founder of Parisian haute couture; noted for introducing the bustle (1825-1895). English fashion designer
the personification of death. personification of death
Czech writer who introduced the word `robot' into the English language (1890-1938). Czech writer
physician and American Revolutionary leader; signer of the Declaration of Independence (1745-1813). American physician, educator, author
the southern waters surrounding Antarctica. ocean around Antarctica
United States army officer and engineer who supervised the construction of the Panama Canal (1858-1928). United States Army officer and civil engineer
English geologist and supporter of the theory of continental drift (1890-1965). English geologist
date of the Allied landing in France, World War II. landing operations of the Allied invasion of Normandy
a French overseas possession in the South Pacific. French overseas country in the Southern Pacific ocean
a war in North America between France and Britain (both aided by American Indian tribes); 1755-1760. North American theater of the worldwide Seven Years' War
Italian pope from 1831 to 1846; conservative in politics and theology; worked to propagate Catholicism in England and the United States (1765-1846). 254th Pope of the Catholic Church
an island in the Aegean Sea in the Saronic Gulf. Greek island of the Saronic Gulf
the most decorated United States combat pilot in World War I (1890-1973). United States Army Medal of Honor recipient
United States astronomer whose studies of Mars led him to conclude that Mars was inhabited (1855-1916). American astronomer
Spanish painter well known for his portraits and for his satires (1746-1828). Spanish painter and printmaker
a city in central England; 2nd largest English city and an important industrial and transportation center. major city in England
a group of over 200 islands in the southern Aegean. archipelago of the Aegean Sea, Greece
a Hebrew minor prophet of the 5th century BC. Biblical prophet
the largest city in New York State and in the United States; located in southeastern New York at the mouth of the Hudson river; a major financial and cultural center. city in state of New York, largest city in the United States by population
the Roman siege of Syracuse (214-212 BC) was eventually won by the Romans who sacked the city (killing Archimedes). siege of the Second Punic War ending in the fall of the\xa0Hellenistic city of Syracuse to the Roman Republic
English translator and Protestant martyr; his translation of the Bible into English (which later formed the basis for the King James Version) aroused ecclesiastical opposition; he left England in 1524 and was burned at the stake in Antwerp as a heretic (1494-1536). Bible translator and agitator from England
the hero of a romance by Cervantes; chivalrous but impractical. novel by the Spanish author Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra
the largest city and former capital of Malaysia until 2005. capital of Malaysia
a city of northeastern New Jersey. city in and the county seat of Passaic County, New Jersey
twin skyscrapers 110 stories high in New York City; built 1368 feet tall in 1970 to 1973; destroyed by a terrorist attack on September 11, 2001. complex of buildings in Lower Manhattan, New York City, United States
mountain range in New Mexico to the east of the Rio Grande. mountain range
French writer who is considered the father of science fiction (1828-1905). French novelist, poet and playwright
battle in World War I (1917); an Allied offensive which eventually failed because tanks bogged down in the waterlogged soil of Flanders; Germans introduced mustard gas which interfered with the Allied artillery. campaign of the First World War
a skyscraper built in Chicago in 1974; 1454 feet tall. skyscraper in Chicago, Illinois
a commercial browser. family of web browsers
a port city in Ontario on Lake Superior. city in Thunder Bay District, province of Ontario, Canada
(Roman mythology) goddess of agriculture; counterpart of Greek Demeter. ancient Roman goddess
United States guitar player and singer of the blues (born in 1925). American blues musician, singer, songwriter, and guitarist
a giant planet with a ring of ice particles; the 7th planet from the sun has a blue-green color and many satellites. seventh planet from the Sun
an inlet of the Pacific Ocean in western California. bay of the Pacific Ocean in California, United States
United States film maker who pioneered animated cartoons and created such characters as Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck; founded Disneyland (1901-1966). American film producer and businessman
English astronomer who pioneered spectroscopic analysis in astronomy and who discovered the red shift (1824-1910). British astronomer
English engineer who developed a method of preserving food by sterilizing it with heat and sealing it inside a steel container--the first tin can (1768-1855). British civil engineer
United States writer (1902-1973). American poet, novelist
a town in eastern Mississippi near the border with Alabama. county seat of Lowndes County, Mississippi, United States
United States paleontologist and popularizer of science (1941-2002). American evolutionary biologist
a leader of the American Revolution and a famous orator who spoke out against British rule of the American colonies (1736-1799). attorney, planter, politician and Founding Father of the United States
a small constellation near the South Pole between Tucana and Ara. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
a city district of central London now noted for restaurants and nightclubs. district in London, United Kingdom
a city in northern Italy (northwest of Venice) on the River Adige; the site of the Council of Trent. Italian city in the North-East of the country
a mountain range in central Asia that is centered in Tajikistan but extends into Kyrgyzstan and Afghanistan and Pakistan and western China. mountain range in Central Asia
a parliamentary state on the island of Mauritius. island nation in the Indian Ocean
the celestial pole above the southern hemisphere. two imaginary points in the sky where the Earth's axis of rotation, indefinitely extended, intersects the imaginary rotating sphere of stars called the celestial sphere
an industrial city of central India to the southeast of Delhi. city in Madhya Pradesh
(New Testament) the scene of the final battle between the kings of the Earth at the end of the world. according to the Book of Revelation, the site of a battle during the end times
the Christ child. Jesus as a child up to the age of 12
English film director (born in 1927). British film director
a battle in the Napoleonic campaigns (1809); Napoleon defeated the Austrians. battle
the southwestern part of England (including Cornwall and Devon and Somerset). area of south-western England
a large temple at Ephesus that was said to be one of the seven wonders of the ancient world. temple in Ephesus
a former Portuguese province on the south coast of China and two islands in the South China Sea; reverted to China in 1999. Special Administrative Region of China
the second New Testament book traditionally attributed to Saint Peter the Apostle. book of the Bible
United States magician (born in Hungary) famous for his ability to escape from chains or handcuffs or straitjackets or padlocked containers (1874-1926). Austro-Hungarian born American magician, escapologist, and stunt performer
United States comedian remembered for his large nose and hoarse voice (1893-1980). American jazz singer, pianist, comedian and actor
a village in Palestine near the north end of the Dead Sea; in the Old Testament it was the first place taken by the Israelites under Joshua as they entered the Promised Land. city in the Palestinian Territories and is located near the Jordan River in the West Bank
port city on the Gulf of Aden; the capital and largest city of Djibouti. capital city of Djibouti
British writer noted for romantic adventure novels (1856-1925). English writer of adventure novels
British politician (1788-1850). British Conservative statesman
United States jurist who served as chief justice of the United States Supreme Court; remembered for his ruling that slaves and their descendants have no rights as citizens (1777-1864). United States federal judge
the hero of a Spanish epic poem from the 12th century. Spanish nobleman and military leader
United States historian (1885-1981). American historian, philosopher and writer
a mountain range in western Russia extending from the Arctic to the Caspian Sea; forms part of the traditional boundary between Europe and Asia. mountain range in Russia
a widespread rebellion in 1381 against poll taxes and other inequities that oppressed the poorer people of England; suppressed by Richard II. major uprising across large parts of England in 1381
a solar deity; firstborn of Bel and consort was Gula; god of war and the chase and agriculture; sometimes identified with biblical Nimrod. mesopotamian deity
an island in the north Atlantic. island portion of Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada
Italian baroque composer and violinist (1675-1741). Italian composer
a geographical area in eastern Africa. easterly region of the African continent
a town in Kent in southeastern England; site of the cathedral where Thomas a Becket was martyred in 1170; seat of the archbishop and primate of the Anglican Church. cathedral city the City of Canterbury, Kent, England
the capital of Singapore; one of the world's biggest ports. republic in Southeast Asia
a peninsula in northeastern China that extends into the Yellow Sea, between Bo Hai and Korea Bay. peninsula
double star 15.7 light years from Earth; the brightest star in the Aquila constellation. Star in the constellation Aquila
a federation of seven Arab emirates on the eastern Arabian peninsula; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1971; rich in oil reserves. monarchy in Southwest Asia
North America and South America and Central America. landmass comprising the continents of North America and South America
English colonial administrator who traveled to America on the Mayflower and served as the first governor of the Plymouth Colony (1595-1655). Mayflower passenger
the region of the United States lying to the south of the Mason-Dixon line. cultural region in the southeastern and south-central United States
a city in northern Algeria at the foot of the Atlas Mountains to the southwest of Algiers. Algeria commune
a constellation to the southeast of Orion; contains Sirius. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
King of England from 1272 to 1307; conquered Wales (1239-1307). King of England
Russian composer of orchestral and piano music (1872-1915). Russian pianist and composer
visionary British poet and painter (1757-1827). English Romantic poet and artist
United States abstract painter (born in Russia) (1881-1961). American Cubist painter
United States painter who was a leading exponent of pop art (1923-1997). American pop artist
a fictional cat with a broad fixed smile on its face; created by Lewis Carroll. character from Carrolls Alice's Adventures in Wonderland
a city in north central Mexico; mining center. capital and largest city of the Mexican state of Durango
United States concert violinist (born in Russia in 1920). American musician
a collection of folktales in Arabic dating from the 10th century. collection of Middle Eastern stories and folk tales compiled in Arabic during the Islamic Golden Age
the lowest region of the ionosphere (35 to 50 miles up) that reflects low-frequency radio waves. atmospheric layer of Earth
a group of culturally related countries in northern Europe; Finland and Iceland are sometimes considered Scandinavian. region in Northern Europe
general in the Confederate Army during the American Civil War whose troops at the first Battle of Bull Run stood like a stone wall (1824-1863). general of the Confederate Army in the American Civil War
United States general who was Allied commander in Africa and Italy in World War II and was commander of the United Nations forces in Korea (1896-1984). English guitarist
a city in southeastern Mexico; the capital of the state of Tabasco. human settlement in the Dominican Republic
(Greek mythology) daughter of Helios and mother of Ariadne. daughter of Helios, the Sun in Greek mythology
United States feminist who founded a national organization for women (born in 1921). American activist
civil war in the United States between the North and the South; 1861-1865. 1861뼰1865 civil war in the United States between the North and the South
a merciless usurer in a play by Shakespeare. fictional human in works of William Shakespeare
a region of northern France on the English Channel. former administrative region of France
a United States writer of science fiction and founder of Scientology (1911-1986). American science fiction author and the founder of the Church of Scientology
Yugoslav geophysicist for whom the Mohorovicic discontinuity was named (1857-1936). Croatian seismologist and meteorologist
a river in western Scotland that flows from the southern uplands into the Firth of Clyde; navigable by oceangoing vessels as far as Glasgow. river in Scotland
the capital of Eritrea. capital city of Eritrea
German physicist who studied cathode rays (1862-1947). German physicist
(New Testament) the rising of Christ on the third day after the Crucifixion. event in the Christian faith, Gospel episode represented in the cycle of the Passion of Christ
a city in northeastern Spain on the Mediterranean; 2nd largest Spanish city and the largest port and commercial center; has been a center for radical political beliefs. capital of Catalonia, Spain
a university in England. collegiate public research university in Cambridge, England, United Kingdom
an ancient region on the coast of southwestern Palestine that was strategically located on a trade route between Syria and Egypt; important in biblical times. state of the Philistines (Levant, Near East)
Dutch navigator who was the first European to discover Tasmania and New Zealand (1603-1659). Dutch seafarer, explorer and merchant
a decisive naval battle in the War of Greek Independence (1827); the Turkish and Egyptian fleet was defeated by an allied fleet of British and French and Russian warships. 1827 naval battle during the Greek War of Independence
an industrial city in southern China. capital of Guangxi, China
(Norse mythology) the primeval giant slain by Odin and his brothers and from whose body they created the world: the sea from his blood; the earth from his flesh; the mountains from his bones; the sky from his skull. primeval being born of primordial elemental poison and the ancestor of all J?tnar
an island in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Africa; the largest of the Madeira Islands. Autonomous Region of Portugal in the archipelago of Madeira
(Norse mythology) goddess of the heavens and married love; wife of Odin. Norse deity
a republic on the western coast of central Africa; was under French and British control until 1960. republic in West Africa
a volcano on Luzon to the northwest of Manila; erupted in 1991 after 600 years of dormancy. active stratovolcano on the island of Luzon in the Philippines
United States general who was the first African American to serve as chief of staff; later served as Secretary of State under President George W. Bush (born 1937). former U.S. Secretary of State and retired four-star general
supreme Teutonic god; counterpart of Norse Odin and Anglo-Saxon Woden. major god in Norse mythology
United States telephone engineer who assisted Alexander Graham Bell in his experiments (1854-1934). assistant to Alexander Graham Bell
a desert in southern Saudi Arabia. desert
United States inventor (born in Germany) of the Linotype machine (1854-1899). German inventor of linotype
English naturalist who formulated a concept of evolution that resembled Charles Darwin's (1823-1913). British naturalist, explorer, geographer, anthropologist and biologist
largest city of Tennessee; located in southwestern Tennessee on bluffs overlooking the Mississippi River. county seat of Shelby County, Tennessee, United States
the northeastern region of the United States. region of the United States
a British colony in the West Indies. British Overseas Territory in the Caribbean
(Roman Catholic Church) a French cleric (born in Germany) who founded the Carthusian order in 1084 (1032-1101). Founder of the Carthusian Order
a communist nation that covers a vast territory in eastern Asia; the most populous country in the world. state in East Asia
German Nazi who was chief of the SS and the Gestapo and who oversaw the genocide of six million Jews (1900-1945). Commander of the SS
the northernmost point of the Earth's axis. one of the two points where the Earth's axis of rotation intersects its surface
a point of land in southwestern South Africa (south of Cape Town). headland of Cape Peninsula, South Africa
a battle in 9 AD in which the Germans under Arminius annihilated three Roman Legions. comprehensive defeat of forces of Roman Empire in 9 CE
king of Jordan credited with creating stability at home and seeking peace with Israel (1935-1999). King of Jordan
a group of more than 800 islands (100 inhabited) in the southwestern Pacific; larger islands (Viti Levu and Vanua Levu) are of volcanic origin surrounded by coral reefs; smaller islands are coral. country in Oceania
the capital of Lombardy in northern Italy; has been an international center of trade and industry since the Middle Ages. major city in Italy
Englishman and Pre-Raphaelite painter (1829-1896). English painter and illustrator
British archaeologist who excavated the palace of Knossos in Crete to find what he called Minoan civilization (1851-1941). English archaeologist and pioneer in the study of Aegean civilization
the first Pope born in Poland; the first Pope not born in Italy in 450 years (1920-2005). 264th Pope of the Catholic Church, saint
United States poet remembered for his long narrative poems (1807-1882). American poet
South African statesman and soldier (1870-1950). military leader, politician and statesman from South Africa
United States politician and orator (1782-1817). Leading American senator and statesman, Secretary of State for three US presidents
a town in west central Wisconsin. city in Wisconsin
elected vice president and succeeded as 30th President of the United States when Harding died in 1923 (1872-1933). American politician, 30th President of the United States
7th president of the US; successfully defended New Orleans from the British in 1815; expanded the power of the presidency (1767-1845). American general and politician, 7th President of the United States
Egyptian sun god; supreme god of the universe in whom Amen and Ra were merged; principal deity during Theban supremacy. Egyptian and Berber deity
an island in the Netherlands Antilles. island in the Caribbean, part of the Netherlands
an Old Testament book consisting of a collection of 150 Psalms. book of the Bible
a national park in Utah having huge canyons and gorges carved by mountain rivers. national park in Utah, United States
a country on the northeastern coast of Central America on the Caribbean; formerly under British control. country in Central America
state capital and largest city of Massachusetts; a major center for banking and financial services. city in and state capital of Massachusetts, United States
Italian fashion designer (1946-1997). Italian couturier
a large constellation on the equator near Pisces and Aquarius. constellation straddling the celestial equator
a midwestern state. state of the United States of America
French composer who is said to have created Impressionism in music (1862-1918). French composer
Dutch dancer who was executed by the French as a German spy in World War I (1876-1917). Dutch exotic dancer and spy
(Old Testament) the wife of Abraham and mother of Isaac. Biblical character
English merchant who took over a shop in London that was expanded by his son into a prestigious department store (1800-1885). British businessman
a seaport on the western coast of Syria. principal port city of Syria
one of the northernmost provinces of the Netherlands. province of the Netherlands
English organist at Westminster Abbey and composer of many theatrical pieces (1659-1695). English composer
English rock star and bass guitarist and songwriter who with John Lennon wrote most of the music for the Beatles (born in 1942). English singer-songwriter and composer, bassist of The Beatles
Australian tennis player who in 1962 was the second man to win the Australian and French and English and United States singles titles in the same year; in 1969 he repeated this feat (born in 1938). Australian tennis player
economic advisor to United States Presidents (1870-1965). American businessman
the former residence of George Washington in northeastern Virginia overlooking the Potomac river. Plantation estate of George Washington, in Fairfax County, Virginia, USA
Macedonian general who accompanied Alexander the Great into Asia; founded a line of kings who reigned in Asia Minor until 65 BC (358-281 BC). Alexandrian general
King of England and Ireland; son of George III who ascended the throne after a long naval career (1765-1837). King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of Hanover
a Marxist-Leninist terrorist organization in Peru; was formed in 1983 to overthrow the Peruvian government and replace it with a Marxist regime; has connections with the ELN in Bolivia. Marxist-Leninist  organization in Peru
United States theologian (born in Germany) (1886-1965). German-American theologian and philosopher
United States space station; in orbit from 1973 to 1979. space station launched and operated by NASA
the eldest son of Elizabeth II and heir to the English throne (born in 1948). son of Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom
the capital of Malta; located on the northeastern coast of the island. capital of Malta
the English physicist and chemist who discovered electromagnetic induction (1791-1867). English scientist
United States physicist (born in Austria) who proposed the exclusion principle (thus providing a theoretical basis for the periodic table) (1900-1958). Austrian physicist, Nobel prize winner
a French soldier and dramatist remembered chiefly for fighting many duels (often over the size of his nose); was immortalized in 1897 in a play by Edmond Rostand (1619-1655). French novelist, dramatist, scientist and duelist
Italian painter and engraver noted for his frescoes (1431-1506). Italian Renaissance painter
English poet (1878-1967). English poet and writer
the capital and chief port of Qatar. capital of Qatar
one of two classical Hindu epics telling of the banishment of Rama from his kingdom and the abduction of his wife by a demon and Rama's restoration to the throne. great Hindu epic
a New Testament book containing Saint Paul's epistle to Titus; contains advice on pastoral matters. book of the Bible
(Old Testament) an ancient city near the Dead Sea that (along with Sodom) was destroyed by God for the vice and depravity of its inhabitants. cities mentioned in the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament and the Qur'an
the capital of Uzbekistan. capital  of Uzbekistan
a saltwater lake on the border between Israel and Jordan; its surface in 1292 feet below sea level. salt lake bordering Jordan and Israel
United States filmmaker (1905-1975). American film director
United States architect who influenced the development of the skyscraper (1859-1934). American architect
Vedic texts from the fifth and fourth centuries BC dealing with phonetics and ritual injunctions and linguistics and grammar and etymology and lexicography and prosody and astronomy and astrology. six auxiliary disciplines associated with Vedas, Indian ancient texts
the Roman god of sleep and dreams. Greek deity
the capital and largest city of Manitoba; located in southern Manitoba; known for severe winters. capital city of province of Manitoba, Canada
United States playwright (1915-2005). American playwright
a channel between eastern Cuba and western Haiti that connects the Atlantic Ocean with the Caribbean Sea. strait
the capital and largest city of France; and international center of culture and commerce. capital and largest city of France
American general who led the Confederate Armies in the American Civil War (1807-1870). American playwright and lyrisit
(Greek mythology) the last king of Troy; father of Hector and Paris and Cassandra. mythological king of Troy
German musician and romantic composer of orchestral and choral works (1809-1847). German composer, pianist and conductor
a town in northeastern Virginia on the Rappahannock River. independent city in Virginia, United States
an ancient city in Bithynia; founded in the 4th century BC and flourished under the Romans; the Nicene Creed was adopted there in 325. city
United States poet and critic (1899-1979). American poet, essayist and social commentator
a small constellation in the southern hemisphere near Lupus and Ara in the Milky Way. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
the second largest state; located in southwestern United States on the Gulf of Mexico. state of the United States of America
a Confederate victory in the American Civil War (1863); Confederate forces under Braxton Bragg defeated Union forces. major battle of the American Civil War
British explorer who mapped the Australian coast (1774-1814). English navigator and cartographer
United States zoologist best known for his interview studies of sexual behavior (1894-1956). American scientist (1894뼰1956)
a town on the Murrumbidgee River in New South Wales; agricultural trading center. city in New South Wales, Australia
English clergyman and brother of John Wesley who wrote many hymns (1707-1788). English Methodist and hymn writer
a river that flows across eastern Virginia into the Tidewater region. river in Virginia, United States
English mathematician for whom Bayes' theorem is named (1702-1761). British mathematician
a city of northeast Kansas on the Missouri River adjacent to Kansas City, Missouri. county seat of Wyandotte County, Kansas, United States
a city in northwestern Iran; a place of pilgrimage for Shiite Muslims. city of Iran
French nuclear physicist who was Marie Curie's assistant and who worked with Marie Curie's daughter who he married (taking the name Joliot-Curie); he and his wife discovered how to synthesize new radioactive elements (1900-1958). French scientist
(Greek mythology) the king of Sparta at the time of the Trojan War; brother of Agamemnon; husband of Helen. king of Mycenaean, husband of Helen of Troy
United States abstract painter influenced by oriental calligraphy (1890-1976). American abstract expressionist painter
the former capital and 2nd largest city of Brazil; chief Brazilian port; famous as a tourist attraction. city of the state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
English leader (born in Germany) of the Royalist forces during the English Civil War (1619-1682). German prince, royalist general and admiral
a Swiss patriot who lived in the early 14th century and who was renowned for his skill as an archer; according to legend an Austrian governor compelled him to shoot an apple from his son's head with his crossbow (which he did successfully without mishap). folk hero of Switzerland
Egyptian Moon deity with the head of an ibis; god of wisdom and learning and the arts; scribe of the gods. egyptian deity
capital and largest city of Bulgaria located in western Bulgaria. capital city of Bulgaria
United States explorer of Antarctica (1798-1877). naval officer and explorer from the United States
a faint constellation twisting around the north celestial pole and lying between Ursa Major and Cepheus. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
a large dam built in 1964 on the Colorado River in Arizona. dam on the Colorado River, Arizona, USA
the largest and southernmost of the Hawaii islands; has several volcanic peaks. largest of the Hawaiian islands
United States jazz composer and piano player and bandleader (1899-1974). American jazz musician, composer and band leader
Dutch physician who discovered that beriberi is caused by a nutritional deficiency (1858-1930). Dutch physician
the battle in 1806 in which Napoleon decisively defeated the Prussians. decisive battle of the Napoleonic Wars, allowing the French Grande Arm뫜뜍 to occupy Prussia
United States politician and lawyer; vice president of the United States (1877-1956). Vice President of the United States
pope who founded the Vatican service for prisoners of war during World War I (1854-1922). 258th Pope of the Catholic Church
United States slave and insurrectionist who in 1831 led a rebellion of slaves in Virginia; he was captured and executed (1800-1831). American slave rebellion leader
a constitutional monarchy in northern Europe on the western side of the Scandinavian Peninsula; achieved independence from Sweden in 1905. constitutional monarchy in Northern Europe
goddess of love; counterpart of Greek Aphrodite. Roman goddess of love, sexuality, procreation and pleasure
French pope from 999 to 1003 who was noted for his great learning (945-1003). pope
a river in western Asia; rises in northeast Turkey and flows to the Caspian Sea. Wikimedia disambiguation page
a Jewish hero in the Old Testament who maintained his faith in God in spite of afflictions that tested him. Biblical figure
a 130-mile long archipelago to the northwest of Scotland. archipelago and council area off the west coast of mainland Scotland
English educator who invented a system of phonetic shorthand (1813-1897). British inventor
a hypothetical continent that (according to plate tectonic theory) broke up later into North America and Europe and Asia. prehistoric supercontinent
United States bass singer and an outspoken critic of racism and proponent of socialism (1898-1976). American academic
German baroque composer (1681-1767). German composer
a republic on the Maldive Islands; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1965. island country in Asia
an inlet of the Kara Sea in western Siberia. bay
king of the Vandals who seized Roman lands and invaded North Africa and sacked Rome (428-477). King of the Vandals and Alans
king of Judea who (according to the New Testament) tried to kill Jesus by ordering the death of all children under age two in Bethlehem (73-4 BC). King of Galilee
the second part of the Talmud consisting primarily of commentary on the Mishna. Wikimedia list article.
the capital of Belarus and of the Commonwealth of Independent States. capital city of Belarus
Russian physiologist who observed conditioned salivary responses in dogs (1849-1936). Russian physiologist
a suburb of London and the headquarters of the club where annual international tennis championships are played on grass courts. suburb of London
French writer who collaborated with his brother Edmond de Goncourt on many books (1830-1870). French writer
Japanese mathematical physicist who proposed that nuclear forces are mediated by massive particles called mesons which are analogous to the photon in mediating electromagnetic forces (1907-1981). Japanese theoretical physicist
(Greek mythology) the god of the underworld in ancient mythology; brother of Zeus and husband of Persephone. Greek god of the underworld in Greek mythology
an English translation of the Vulgate by Roman Catholic scholars. First complete English language Catholic Bible
a port city and industrial center in southeastern Bangladesh on the Bay of Bengal. second largest city of Bangladesh, situated at the southwestern part of the country
an egg-shaped character in a nursery rhyme who fell off a wall and could not be put back together again (late 17th century). nursery rhyme character
a city in northwestern Russia on the Volkhov River; Russia's oldest city and an important trading center in the Middle Ages. city in the northwest of Russia
Italian physicist noted for his work on gases; proposed what has come to be called Avogadro's law (1776-1856). Italian scientist
United States lyricist who frequently collaborated with his brother George Gershwin (1896-1983). American lyricist
the largest city in Delaware. county seat of New Castle County, Delaware, United States
a city in southern California located on 8.5 miles of Pacific beachfront; was a resort until oil was discovered in 1921. city in Los Angeles County, California, United States
a zodiacal constellation in the northern hemisphere between Taurus and Cancer on the ecliptic. zodiac constellation in the northern hemisphere
19,370 feet high. North America's highest mountain
Australian operatic soprano (1861-1931). Australian opera singer
Israeli statesman (born in Russia) who (as prime minister of Israel) negotiated a peace treaty with Anwar Sadat (then the president of Egypt) (1913-1992). Israeli politician and Prime Minister
king of Prussia who became involved in the Napoleonic Wars (1770-1840). King of Prussia
United States film actor (1899-1957). American actor
a populous province in northeastern China. province of China
a city in eastern Tennessee on the Tennessee River. county seat of Knox County, Tennessee, United States; third-largest city in Tennessee
the largest city and principal port of New Zealand. city on the North Island, New Zealand
an Italian city in Trentino-Alto Adige near the Austrian border; noted as a resort and for its Alpine scenery. Italian comune in South Tyrol
United States composer (born in 1936). American composer
a city of eastern Wisconsin on an arm of Lake Michigan. city in and county seat of Brown County, Wisconsin
a Dutch colony in North America along the Hudson and lower Delaware rivers although the colony centered in New Amsterdam; annexed by the English in 1664. 17th-century colony of the Dutch Republic that was located on the East Coast of North America
the second brightest star in Centaurus. Star system in the southern constellation of Centaurus
United States abolitionist born a slave on a plantation in Maryland and became a famous conductor on the Underground Railroad leading other slaves to freedom in the North (1820-1913). African-American abolitionist and humanitarian
a fortification built before World War II to protect France's eastern border; initially considered to be impregnable, it was easily overrun by the German army in 1940. line of fortifications along the French/German border
the chief city in the Ryukyu Islands. capital city of Okinawa, Japan
joint capital (with Mecca) of Saudi Arabia located in the central oasis; largest city in Saudi Arabia. capital of Saudi Arabia
United States journalist and literary critic (1880-1956). American journalist and writer
a town in northeast Texas adjacent to Texarkana, Arkansas. city in Bowie County, Texas, United States
wife of William Shakespeare (1556-1623). American actress
the region of the United States lying to the north of the Ohio River and to the east of the Mississippi River. Geographical region of the USA
a cape of southeast New Jersey extending into the Atlantic Ocean. city in New Jersey
English physicist (born in America) who studied heat and friction; experiments convinced him that heat is caused by moving particles (1753-1814). American-born British physicist and inventor
an arm of the Indian Ocean between Madagascar and southeastern Africa. strait
a port in southwestern Connecticut on Long Island Sound. county seat city of Fairfield County, Connecticut, United States
a town of southwest Wyoming near the Utah border. city in Sweetwater County, Wyoming, United States
the southernmost point of the Earth's axis. one of the two points where the Earth's axis of rotation intersects its surface
queen of France as the wife of Henry II and regent during the minority of her son Charles IX (1519-1589). Queen Consort of France
a fictional character who was hit on the head with an acorn and believed that the sky was falling. fable whose title character is a hen
an Italian poet famous for love lyrics (1304-1374). Italian scholar and poet
(Greek mythology) a princess of Colchis who aided Jason in taking the Golden Fleece from her father. daughter of King Ae?tes of Colchis in Greek mythology
United States composer who collaborated with Gertrude Stein (1896-1989). American composer
French general who became emperor of the French (1769-1821). French general, First Consul and later Emperor of the French
a lake to the east of the Caspian Sea lying between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. A lake lying between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan
28th President of the United States; led the United States in World War I and secured the formation of the League of Nations (1856-1924). American politician, 28th President of the United States (in office from 1913 to 1921)
United States painter noted for his woodcuts (1882-1971). American artist
a cantilever bridge across the Mississippi at Baton Rouge. bridge in Louisiana
the ancient prophet whose writings were revealed to Joseph Smith who founded the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. Mormon prophet
English biographer and leading member of the Bloomsbury Group (1880-1932). British writer
English writer whose novel about a lesbian relationship was banned in Britain for many years (1883-1943). Poet and author
the capital and largest city of Ghana with a deep-water port. capital city of Ghana
English chemist whose work on radioactive disintegration led to the discovery of isotopes (1877-1956). chemist and physicist from England
a region of ancient Greece on the north coast of the Peloponnese. Crusader principality in southern Greece
a city in southern Texas on the Rio Grande near its mouth into the Gulf of Mexico; has a channel that accommodates oceangoing ships. county seat of Cameron County, Texas, United States
the capital and largest city of Japan; the economic and cultural center of Japan. capital of Japan and one of 47 prefectures of Japan
English writer who created Frankenstein's monster and married Percy Bysshe Shelley (1797-1851). English novelist, short story writer, dramatist, essayist, biographer, and travel writer
Saudi Arabian minister of petroleum who was a central figure in the creation of OPEC (born in 1930). former Saudi Arabian minister of oil
the government building that serves as the residence and office of the President of the United States. official residence and workplace of the President of the United States
the document drawn up in 1555 to defend the catholicity of Lutheran doctrine and to justify innovations in Lutheran practice; is still in effect today. primary confession of faith of the Lutheran Church and one of the most important documents of the Protestant Reformation
a geographical division of Asia that includes Indochina plus Indonesia and the Philippines and Singapore. subregion of Asia
English actor best know for his Shakespearean roles (1907-1989). British actor, director and producer
a fortress built in Paris in the 14th century and used as a prison in the 17th and 18th centuries; it was destroyed July 14, 1789 at the start of the French Revolution. former fortress in Paris, France
Swiss painter influenced by Kandinsky (1879-1940). German painter
an inlet of the Atlantic Ocean off of eastern Massachusetts extending from Cape Ann on the north to Cape Cod on the south. bay in Massachusetts, USA
vice president under Eisenhower and 37th President of the United States; resigned after the Watergate scandal in 1974 (1913-1994). 37th President of the United States of America
United States film actor (born in 1956). American actor and producer
a sandy promontory (formerly Cape Kennedy) extending into the Atlantic Ocean from a barrier island off the eastern coast of Florida; the site of a NASA center for spaceflight. cape at the Atlantic coast of Florida, United States
United States labor leader who was president of the American Federation of Labor from 1924 to 1952 and who led the struggle with the Congress of Industrial Organizations (1873-1952). American trade union leader
Soviet general who during World Warr II directed the counteroffensive at Stalingrad and relieved Leningrad and captured Berlin (1896-1974). Marshal of the Soviet Union
a city in southern California to the east of Los Angeles. city in  San Bernardino County, California, United States
the largest city and financial center of Israel; located in western Israel on the Mediterranean. second largest city by population in Israel
the French colonies of the territory now occupied by Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam. Federal state in Southeast Asia
English cartoonist (1820-1914). British illustrator, graphic humourist and political cartoonist
French actor and cabaret singer (1888-1972). French actor, singer and entertainer
the prayer of Simeon (Luke 2:29-32). passage from the Gospel of Luke
a port city in northeastern Greece on an inlet of the Aegean Sea; second largest city of Greece. city in Greece
United States film actor (1917-1997). American film actor, author, composer and singer
a wrought iron tower 300 meters high that was constructed in Paris in 1889; for many years it was the tallest man-made structure. tower located on the Champ de Mars in Paris, France
(Roman mythology) goddess of abundance and fertility; wife of Saturn; counterpart of Greek Rhea and Cybele of ancient Asia Minor. Roman goddess of earth and fertility
United States manufacturer of breakfast cereals and Postum (1854-1914). American businessman
the last Aztec emperor in Mexico who was overthrown and killed by Hernando Cortes (1466-1520). 9th tlatoani of Tenochtitlan and ruler of the Aztec Triple Alliance
United States writer (born in Russia) noted for her polemical novels and political conservativism (1905-1982). Russian-American novelist and philosopher
a large asteroid; the second asteroid to be discovered. large asteroid of the main asteroid belt
the southernmost of the four main islands of Japan; contains coal fields. third largest island of Japan
an island resort off Cape Cod; formerly a center of the whaling industry. island in the United States of America
a country on the island of Saint Lucia; gained independence from Great Britain in 1979. country in the Caribbean
United States jazz saxophonist (1904-1969). American jazz saxophonist
the second book of the Old Testament: tells of the departure of the Israelites out of slavery in Egypt led by Moses; God gave them the Ten Commandments and the rest of Mosaic law on Mount Sinai during the Exodus. second book of the Bible
a Mexican state on the eastern part of the Gulf of Campeche. state of Mexico
Italian physicist who invented the mercury barometer (1608-1647). Italian physicist
a giant planet that is surrounded by three planar concentric rings of ice particles; the 6th planet from the sun. sixth planet from the Sun
the midwestern states where corn is grown; Iowa and Illinois are excellent for raising corn and corn-fed livestock. geographic region
a republic on the west coast of Africa. country in Africa
an arm of the North Atlantic between the British Isles and Scandinavia; oil was discovered under the North Sea in 1970. marginal Sea of the Atlantic Ocean
a city in northwestern Somalia. capital of Somaliland
United States playwright (1893-1966). American playwright
French pope from 1362 to 1370 who tried to reestablish the papacy in Rome but in 1367 returned to Avignon hoping to end the war between France and England; canonized in 1870 (1310-1370). pope
43rd President of the United States; son of George Herbert Walker Bush (born in 1946). 43rd President of the United States
German chemist remembered for his discovery of the ring structure of benzene (1829-1896). German organic chemist
English artist noted for a series of engravings that satirized the affectations of his time (1697-1764). English painter, printmaker, pictorial satirist, social critic, and editorial cartoonist
an industrial city in southern Poland on the Vistula. city in Lesser Poland Voivodeship, Poland
a port city in eastern Argentina to the southwest of Buenos Aires on an inlet of the Atlantic Ocean. city in Argentina
King of Great Britain and Ireland and Hanover from 1820 to 1830; his attempt to divorce his estranged wife undermined the prestige of the Crown (1762-1830). King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of Hanover
the capital and largest city of Yemen; on the central plateau. capital city of Yemen
(Roman Catholic Church) English monk and scholar (672-735). English monk and saint
a racetrack for thoroughbred racing in Louisville; site of the Kentucky Derby. Thoroughbred racetrack in Louisville, Kentucky, United States
Soviet statesman (1890-1986). Soviet politician and Minister of Foreign Affairs
a town in southern Kentucky. city in Kentucky
Australian actor (born in the United States in 1956). American actor, film director, producer and screenwriter
English colonist in America; leader of the Pilgrims in the early days of the Plymouth Colony (1584-1656). English military officer hired by the Pilgrims
United States operatic soprano (born in 1945). American opera singer
English nobleman who deposed Edward II and was executed by Edward III (1287-1330). English nobleman and rebel
a mountain in the Himalayas in Nepal (26,820 feet high). mountain in Nepal
a resort city on the Pacific in central Chile. city and commune in Chilep
the largest city in southern Alberta; an oil and gas center and a technology center for Alberta and most of western Canada. city in Alberta, Canada
English writer who is remembered for her biography of Charlotte Bronte (1810-1865). novelist
a territory of western Brazil bordering on Bolivia and Peru. federated state of Brazil
an active volcano in southeastern Colombia in the Andes. Volcanic mountain in Colombia
Asiatic epithet for Rhea or Cybele. deity of Greek, Roman and Anatolian mythology
a mountainous plateau in southern France that covers almost one sixth of the country. mountain range
Celtic sea god; son of Llyr. water deity
United States author whose novels drew on her experiences as a missionary in China (1892-1973). American writer
an ancient city on the north coast of Africa (northwest of Carthage); destroyed by Arabs around 700 AD. archaeological site in Tunisia
a monarchy in northwestern Europe occupying most of the British Isles; divided into England and Scotland and Wales and Northern Ireland; `Great Britain' is often used loosely to refer to the United Kingdom. constitutional monarchy in Western Europe; formed in 1927
United States writer noted for his droll epigrams (1902-1971). American poet
the capital and largest city of Hawaii; located on a large bay on the island of Oahu. city in and state capital of Hawaii, United States; county seat of Honolulu County
Swedish physicist (born in Austria) who worked in the field of radiochemistry with Otto Hahn and formulated the concept of nuclear fission with Otto Frisch (1878-1968). Austrian-Swedish physicist
a city in northeastern Germany near the Baltic sea; an important member of the Hanseatic League in the 14th century. city in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany
king of the Franks who unified Gaul and established his capital at Paris and founded the Frankish monarchy; his name was rendered as Gallic `Louis' (466-511). first king of the Franks (c. 466뼰511)
United States explorer who (with Meriwether Lewis) led an expedition from St. Louis to the mouth of the Columbia River; Clark was responsible for making maps of the area (1770-1838). American explorer, soldier, Indian agent, and territorial governor
the transaction in 1867 in which the United States Secretary of State William Henry Seward purchased Alaska from Russia. 1867 sale of Alaska to the USA by Russia
a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Puppis and Antlia. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
a hill near Jerusalem where Jesus was crucified. geographic location
capital and largest city of Bosnia; scene of the assassination of Francis Ferdinand in 1914 which precipitated World War I. capital city of Bosnia and Herzegovina
English diplomat and author (1886-1968). British diplomat, author, diarist and politician
Italian pope from 1534 to 1549 who excommunicated Henry VIII of England in 1538 and initiated the Council of Trent in 1545; was active in the Counter Reformation and promoted the Society of Jesus for this purpose (1468-1549). Pope
Queen of England as the 6th wife of Henry VIII (1512-1548). Queen Consort of Henry VIII
Belgian chemist who developed the Solvay process and built factories exploiting it (1838-1922). Belgian chemist, industrialist, philanthropist
a town in south central Washington. city in the state of Washington, United States of America
any of 12 kings of ancient Egypt between 1315 and 1090 BC. Egyptian pharaoh of the 20th dynasty
king of Persia who sanctioned the practice of Judaism in Jerusalem (?-424 BC). the fifth king of kings of the Achaemenid Empire
a small zodiacal constellation in the northern hemisphere; between Pisces and Taurus. zodiac constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
United States slapstick comedian who played the pompous and overbearing member of the Laurel and Hardy duo who made many films (1892-1957). American comic actor famous as one half of Laurel and Hardy
a river in east central England that flows past Cambridge to join the Ouse River. tributary of the River Great Ouse
United States financier who accumulated great wealth from railroad and shipping businesses (1794-1877). American businessman, philanthropist, and tycoon
a Ukrainian peninsula between the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov. peninsula in the Black Sea
French army officer of Jewish descent whose false imprisonment for treason in 1894 raised issues of anti-Semitism that dominated French politics until his release in 1906 (1859-1935). French artillery officer
port city in southwestern Ireland. city in Ireland in the province of Munster
(Roman Catholic Church) Greek patriarch of Alexandria who championed Christian orthodoxy against Arianism; a church father, saint, and Doctor of the Church (293-373). Patriarch of Alexandria
French composer and teacher who influenced a generation of composers (1822-1890). Belgian-French composer, organist and music teacher
United States admiral of the Pacific fleet during World War II who used aircraft carriers to destroy the Japanese navy (1885-1966). United States Navy fleet admiral
a group of islands in the Indian and Pacific Oceans between Asia and Australia. book by Alfred Russel Wallace
United States photographer remembered for her portraits of rural workers during the Depression (1895-1965). American photojournalist
the brightest star in Virgo. star in the constellation Virgo
one of the first great English architects and a theater designer (1573-1652). English architect
(Greek mythology) an Ethiopian princess and daughter of Cassiopeia; she was fastened to a rock and exposed to a sea monster that was sent by Poseidon, but she was rescued by Perseus and became his wife. Aethiopian princess in Greek mythology
French tragic dramatist whose plays treat grand moral themes in elegant verse (1606-1684). French tragedian
a volcanic mountain peak in the Cascade Range in northern California (14,162 feet high). Stratovolcano in California, United States of America
a gulf to the west of the mainland of Mexico. gulf of the Pacific Ocean on the coast of Mexico
a group of more than 500 islands off the western coast of Scotland. archipelago off the west coast of mainland Scotland
a desert in southwestern Arizona. North American desert
a Greek disciple and helper of Saint Paul. Greek saint
a terrorist organization formed in Ireland in 1994 as a clandestine armed wing of Sinn Fein. Irish republican paramilitary group
a historical plateau region in northwestern Romania that is separated from the rest of the country by the Transylvanian Alps; originally part of Hungary; incorporated into Romania at the end of World War I. historical region in the northwestern part of Romania
the state capital of Alabama on the Mobile River. county seat city in Montgomery County, Alabama, USA and Alabama federated state capital city
United States writer of a novel about slavery that advanced the abolitionists' cause (1811-1896). American abolitionist and author
an engineering university in Cambridge. research university in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States
an inland sea in northern Canada. large body of saltwater in northeastern Canada that drains much of north-central North America
an ancient trade route between China and the Mediterranean (4,000 miles); followed by Marco Polo in the 13th century to reach Cathay. trade routes through Asia connecting Chinza to the Mediterranean Sea
a Japanese defeat in World War II (May 1942); the first naval battle fought entirely by planes based on aircraft carriers. major naval battle in the Pacific Theater of World War II
a state of Mexico on the northern part of the Yucatan Peninsula. state of Mexico
(Old Testament) elder brother of Moses and first high priest of the Israelites; created the golden calf. Biblical and Quranic character
king of Epirus; defeated the Romans in two battles in spite of staggering losses (319-272 BC). Epirot Illyrian military leader
the flight of Muhammad from Mecca to Medina in 622 which marked the beginning of the Muslim era; the Muslim calendar begins in that year. journey of Muhammad
the prolonged bombardment of British cities by the German Luftwaffe during World War II and the aerial combat that accompanied it. air campaign waged by the German Air Force during WWII
the capital and largest city of Laos. capital of Laos
battle in World War I (1915); Germans wanted to try chlorine (a toxic yellow gas) as a weapon and succeeded in taking considerable territory from the Allied salient. First World War battle
a river in western Europe that rises in northern France and flows generally east into Belgium where it joins the Meuse at Namur. river in France and Belgium, mouth in Meuse river
English aristocrat who was the first wife of Prince Charles; her death in an automobile accident in Paris produced intense national mourning (1961-1997). First wife of Charles, Prince of Wales
British chemist who with Robert Curl and Richard Smalley discovered fullerenes and opened a new branch of chemistry (born in 1939). British chemist
a group of volcanic islands in the south central Pacific; part of French Polynesia. island group in French Polynesia
United States statesman and leader of the Federalists; as the first Secretary of the Treasury he establish a federal bank; was mortally wounded in a duel with Aaron Burr (1755-1804). first Secretary of the Treasury and Founding Father of the United States
United States architect (1838-1886). American architect
a town in southwest Michigan. county seat of Kalamazoo County, Michigan, United States
Russian composer of operas and orchestral works (1839-1881). Russian composer (1839-1881)
an English astrophysicist and advocate of the steady state theory of cosmology; described processes of nucleosynthesis inside stars (1915-2001). British astronomer
a town in southeast Minnesota. city in Minnesota, United States of America
German philologist noted for his studies of the relation between language and culture (1767-1835). German (Prussian) philosopher, government functionary, diplomat, and founder of the University of Berlin
32nd President of the United States; elected four times; instituted New Deal to counter the Great Depression and led country during World War II (1882-1945). 32nd President of the United States
a landlocked republic in central Europe; separated from Slovakia in 1993. republic in Central Europe
a northwestern arm of the Red Sea linked to the Mediterranean by the Suez Canal. gulf of the Red Sea separating African Egypt from the Sinai Peninsula
a desperately poor landlocked country in western Africa; was formerly Upper Volta under French rule but gained independence in 1960. country in Africa
a city in central New York. city in Oneida County, New York, United States
a territory in north central Australia. federal territory of Australia
a city in northern Mexico on the Rio Grande opposite El Paso. city and seat of Ju뭼折봢z Municipality, Chihuahua
English navigator who discovered the Hudson River; in 1610 he attempted to winter in Hudson Bay but his crew mutinied and set him adrift to die (1565-1611). English explorer
United States railway tycoon (1848-1909). American businessman
a pitched battle in the Mexican War that resulted in a major victory for American forces over Mexican forces at a locality south of Mexico City (1847). battle
a town in north central Colorado; Rocky Mountains resort center and university town. city in Colorado, United States of America
United States aviator who (with Richard E. Byrd) piloted the first flight over the North Pole (1890-1928). United States Navy Medal of Honor recipient
port city and industrial center in east central Ukraine on the Dnieper River. city in Dnipropetrovsk Oblast, Ukraine
United States artist whose paintings portrayed life in the Midwest and South (1889-1975). American painter
the northernmost islands are part of Papua New Guinea; the remainder form an independent state within the British Commonwealth. country in Oceania
a town in Arizona on the Mexican border opposite Nogales, Mexico. city in Arizona
Italian tenor (born in 1935). Italian operatic tenor
capital and largest city and economic and cultural center of Portugal; a major port in western Portugal on Tagus River where it broadens and empties into the Atlantic. capital city of Portugal
a small island in the central Pacific Ocean 2,800 miles to the southwest of Hawaii; in Micronesia to the west of the Gilbert Islands. republic in Oceania
the title character in a story by Washington Irving about a man who sleeps for 20 years and doesn't recognize the world when he wakens. short story by Washington Irving published in 1819
Argentine soldier who became president of Argentina (1895-1974). President of Argentina
United States abstract expressionist painter (1915-1991). American artist
American painter of historical scenes (1756-1843). American artist
ancient Egyptian sun god with the head of a hawk; a universal creator; he merged with the god Amen as Amen-Ra to become the king of the gods. ancient Egyptian solar deity
Italian actress best known for her performances in tragic roles (1858-1924). actress
an ironclad vessel built by the Confederate forces in the hope of breaking the blockade imposed by the North. steam frigate
a city in south central Belgium situated on a promontory between the Meuse River and the Sambre River; the site of intense fighting in World War I and World War II. city in the belgian province of Namur and capital of Wallonia
the provincial capital and largest city of Prince Edward Island. province capital of Prince Edward Island, Canada
a district of ancient Greece to the northwest of Athens. regional unit in Central Greece, Greece
United States filmmaker (born in 1928). American filmmaker
an island in the Persian Gulf. largest island within the archipelago of Bahrain
a county in southwestern England on the Bristol Channel. ceremonial county of England (use Q21694741 for administrative non-metropolitan county)
a collection of biographies of famous pairs of Greeks and Romans written by Plutarch; used by Shakespeare in writing some of his plays. biographies of famous Greeks and Romans by Plutarch
Egyptian statesman who became president in 1981 after Sadat was assassinated (born in 1929). 4th president of Egypt
port city on Atlantic coast; the capital and largest city of Angola. capital of Angola
French naturalist who proposed that evolution resulted from the inheritance of acquired characteristics (1744-1829). French naturalist
a town in central West Virginia on the New River. town in and the county seat of Fayette County, West Virginia
the western United States during its frontier period. Western frontier of the United States c. 1850뼰1900
German writer concerned about the role of the artist in bourgeois society (1875-1955). German novelist, and 1929 Nobel Prize laureate
a river that is formed in western Pennsylvania and flows westward to become a tributary of the Mississippi River. river in the midwestern United States
capital of the state of New Hampshire; located in south central New Hampshire on the Merrimack river. capital city of state of New Hampshire, United States; county seat of Merrimack County, New Hampshire
a large faint constellation in the southern hemisphere containing most of the Small Magellanic Cloud. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
a volcanic island in the Caribbean; in the West Indies. British Overseas Territory in the Caribbean
Canadian geophysicist who was a pioneer in the study of plate tectonics (1908-1993). Canadian geologist
a city in northern India in Uttar Pradesh; during the Indian Mutiny its British residents were besieged by Indian insurgents. capital of Uttar Pradesh, India
Apostle and patron saint of Ireland; an English missionary to Ireland in the 5th century. 5th-century Romano-British Christian missionary and bishop in Ireland
a tributary of the Columbia River that rises in Wyoming and flows westward; discovered in 1805 by the Lewis and Clark Expedition. largest tributary of the Columbia River
the provincial capital of Veneto; built on 118 islands within a lagoon in the Gulf of Venice; has canals instead of streets; one of Italy's major ports and a famous tourist attraction. city in northeastern Italy, sited on a group of 118 small islands
a Belgian maker of musical instruments who invented the saxophone (1814-1894). Belgian musical instrument designer and musician
United States writer about rural southern life (1909-2001). American author
English poet (1683-1765). English poet
Cherokee who created a notation for writing the Cherokee language (1770-1843). Cherokee silversmith and creator of the Cherokee syllabary
Scottish man of letters and adventurer (1560-1582). Scottish polymath
German chemist who discovered ozone and developed guncotton as a propellant in firearms (1799-1868). German-Swiss chemist, discoverer of guncotton and ozone
a small reddish planet that is the 4th from the sun and is periodically visible to the naked eye; minerals rich in iron cover its surface and are responsible for its characteristic color. fourth planet from the Sun
English privateer involved in the slave trade; later helped build the fleet that in 1588 defeated the Spanish Armada (1532-1595). English navigator, admiral, privateer and slave trader
the time period during which only modern Homo sapiens was known to have existed; ended about 10,000 years BC. Subdivision of the Paleolithic or Old Stone Age
(Old Testament) the minister of the Persian emperor who hated the Jews and was hanged for plotting to massacre them. Biblical figure
a city in east central Germany; formerly called Karl-Marx-Stadt until 1990; noted for textile manufacturing. city in Germany
United States dancer and pioneer of modern dance (1878-1927). American dancer and choreographer
a nation in northern North America; the French were the first Europeans to settle in mainland Canada. country in North America
the fifth sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about July 23 to August 22. fifth astrological sign in the zodiac
a national park in Tanzania created in 1951 to protect the wildlife. national park in Africa
United States novelist (1862-1937). American novelist, short story writer, designer
a major industrial and coal mining region in the valley of the Ruhr river in northwestern Germany. urban area in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany
English critic and novelist; author of theological works and of books for children (1898-1963). Christian apologist, novelist, and Medievalist
a mountainous landlocked communist state in southeastern Asia; achieved independence from France in 1949. republic in Southeast Asia
a Japanese city in southern Honshu on the Pacific shore. city in Aichi Prefecture, Japan
United States film actor noted for playing gangster roles (1893-1973). Romanian American actor
(Greek mythology) the Greek god of the west wind. group of Greek gods
outstanding Italian operatic tenor (1873-1921). Italian operatic tenor
a terrorist organization of militant Islamists organized into tiny cells of extreme fundamentalists; emerged during the 1970s mainly in Egyptian jails. Egyptian Sunni Islamist movement
an inactive volcano in Sicily; last erupted in 1961; the highest volcano in Europe (10,500 feet). active stratovolcano on the east coast of Sicily, Italy
a town in southeastern Oklahoma. city in Oklahoma
a river in central Maine flowing into Penobscot Bay. river in the US state of Maine
the world's largest desert (3,500,000 square miles) in northern Africa. desert in Africa
United States slapstick comedy duo who made many films together. American comedy double act
a pitched battle in World War II (1942) resulting in a decisive Allied victory by British troops under Montgomery over German troops under Rommel. battle of the Western Desert Campaign of the Second World War
an island of Hawaii to the northwest of Oahu. island in the United States of America
French painter noted for his realistic depiction of everyday scenes (1819-1877). French painter
a city in northeastern New Jersey. city in New Jersey, USA
a narrative epic poem written by Dante. epic poem by Dante Alighieri
a city in southern Michigan near Detroit; site of the University of Michigan. county seat of Washtenaw County, Michigan, United States
a city in central Georgia to the southeast of Atlanta. city in Georgia, United States of America
a river that rises in Mexico and flows across Texas into the Gulf of Mexico. river in Texas
English historian noted for his constitutional history of medieval England (1825-1901). English historian and clergyman
English economist (born in Austria) noted for work on the optimum allocation of resources (1899-1992). Austrian and British economist
United States architect and student of Latrobe (1787-1854). American architect
a national park in Oregon having the deepest lake in the United States in the crater of an extinct volcano. national park in Oregon
a cape at the southern tip of Norway. municipality in Vest-Agder, Norway
a town in central Belgium where in 1815 Napoleon met his final defeat. municipality in Walloon Brabant, Belgium
a state in the western United States; settled in 1847 by Mormons led by Brigham Young. state of the United States of America
United States writer best known for his autobiographical novels (1900-1938). American writer
Polish astronomer who produced a workable model of the solar system with the sun in the center (1473-1543). Renaissance mathematician, Polish astronomer, physician
German physicist who discovered x-rays and developed roentgenography (1845-1923). German physicist
(Greek mythology) a beautiful young man who fell in love with his own reflection. hunter in Greek mythology
United States educator and theologian (1802-1887). American educationalist and theologian
English mathematician and physicist; remembered for developing the calculus and for his law of gravitation and his three laws of motion (1642-1727). British physicist and mathematician and founder of modern classical physics
a Danish author remembered for his fairy stories (1805-1875). Danish author, fairy tale writer, and poet
26th President of the United States; hero of the Spanish-American War; Panama Canal was built during his administration;  (1858-1919). American politician, 26th President of the United States
United States dancer and choreographer (born in Russia) noted for his abstract and formal works (1904-1983). Georgian choreographer, dancer and ballet master
a region in south central France; named after the medieval dialect of French that was spoken there. former administrative region of France
a city in southwest Ohio; manufacturing center. county seat of Montgomery County, Ohio, United States
United States endocrinologist (1892-1970). American endocrinologist
national capital of Solomon Islands. capital of Solomon Islands, on the tropical island Guadalcanal
United States sociologist (1840-1910). American academic, sociologist
a landlocked republic in West Africa; gained independence from France in 1960; most of the country is dominated by the Sahara Desert. republic in Western Africa
a county is central England. ceremonial county in England, UK
Irish writer of short stories (1896-1984). Irish writer
Hindu god of war. Hindu deity, warrior-philosopher in Shaivism
English historian who studied the rise and fall of civilizations looking for cyclical patterns (1889-1975). British economic historian
a town in north central France noted for white Burgundy wines. commune in Yonne, France
an atoll in the Marshall Islands; site of an amphibious assault in World War II; later used temporarily by the United States to test atomic bombs. atoll of the Marshall Islands
British classical scholar (born in Australia) who advocated the League of Nations and the United Nations (1866-1957). Anglo-Australian scholar
the narrowest part of southern Mexico is an isthmus between the Bay of Campeche on the north coast and the Gulf of Tehuantepec on the south coast. shortest distance between the Gulf of Mexico and Pacific Ocean
a battle during the Napoleonic Wars (1800); the French defeated the Austrians. battle
English physiologist who, with Andrew Huxley, discovered the role of potassium and sodium atoms in the transmission of the nerve impulse (1914-1998). physiologist and biophysicist
the legendary sword of King Arthur. legendary sword of King Arthur
a river of northern Virginia that empties into the Potomac at Harpers Ferry. river in Virginia and West Virginia, United States
the Volta river in southeastern has been dammed to create one of the world's largest man-made lakes. largest reservoir by surface area in the world located in Ghana
German archaeologist who discovered nine superimposed city sites of Troy; he also excavated Mycenae (1822-1890). German businessman and a pioneer of field archaeology
a mountain range in southern Spain along the Mediterranean coast to the east of Granada. mountain range in southern Spain
United States woman tennis player (born in 1943). American tennis player
Celtic god of love and beauty; patron deity of young men and women. Irish deity of love and sex
(Roman Catholic Church) Italian theologian and Doctor of the Church who is remembered for his attempt to reconcile faith and reason in a comprehensive theology; presented philosophical proofs of the existence of God (1225-1274). Dominican scholastic philosopher of the Roman Catholic Church
Swiss physicist who studied superconductivity (born in 1927). Swiss physicist
a region of Malaysia on northwestern Borneo. Malaysian state on the island of Borneo
the principal battle of the Balkan Wars (1912); Bulgarian forces defeated the Turks. battle
British playwright (1911-1977). playwright, screenwriter
the economic crisis beginning with the stock market crash in 1929 and continuing through the 1930s. 20th-century worldwide economic depression
a region in northeastern China. geographic region in Northeast Asia
the first important battle of the American War of Independence (1775) which was fought at Breed's Hill; the British defeated the colonial forces. Early battle of the American Revoluntionary War
a group of islands in the southeastern West Indies; the southern part of the Lesser Antilles. subgroup of islands within the West Indies, comprising the (generally larger) islands located to the south-east of the Lesser Antilles bordering the Caribbean sea to the west of the North Atlantic ocean
a port city in northern France on the English Channel at the mouth of the Seine. commune in Seine-Maritime, France
a town in eastern Afghanistan (east of Kabul). capital of Nangarhar, Afghanistan
a port and provincial capital of Newfoundland. province capital city of Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada
English novelist who described a fictitious land he called Erewhon (1835-1902). novelist
a continuation of the Roman Empire in the Middle East after its division in 395. Roman Empire during Late Antiquity and the Middle Ages
beautiful daughter of Minos and Pasiphae; she fell in love with Theseus and gave him the thread with which he found his way out of the Minotaur's labyrinth. the daughter of Minos in Greek mythology
capital of North Korea and an industrial center. capital of North Korea
United States mathematician and astronomer remembered for his studies of Uranus and Saturn and Neptune (1809-1880). American mathematician
the revolution of the American Colonies against Great Britain; 1775-1783. 1775뼰1783 war between Great Britain and the Thirteen Colonies, which won independence as the United States of America
Egyptian god of the earth; father of Osiris and Isis. Egyptian deity of the Earth
(Christianity) the announcement to the Virgin Mary by the angel Gabriel of the incarnation of Christ. Christian celebration and artistic theme
Czech educational reformer (1592-1670). Czech teacher, educator, philosopher and writer
King of Great Britain and Ireland and emperor of India from 1936 to 1947; he succeeded Edward VIII (1895-1952). King of the United Kingdom
a city in central Germany. city in Lower Saxony, Germany
a national park in California featuring sea birds and marine life. national park of the United States
United States sculptor who created the seated marble figure of Abraham Lincoln in the Lincoln Memorial in Washington D.C. (1850-1931). American sculptor
a volcano in south central Guatemala. mountain in Guatemala
United States newspaper publisher whose introduction of large headlines and sensational reporting changed American journalism (1863-1951). American newspaper publisher
an industrial city in central England; devastated by air raids during World War II; remembered as the home of Lady Godiva in the 11th century. city in the West Midlands in England
American theologian whose sermons and writings stimulated a period of renewed interest in religion in America (1703-1758). Christian preacher, philosopher, and theologian
United States singer and film actor (1915-1998). American singer and film actor
a cape on the southwestern coast of the Netherlands near Rotterdam. district of Rotterdam in the Netherlands
United States painter (1834-1903). American artist
the czar of Russia whose plans to liberalize the government of Russia were unrealized because of the wars with Napoleon (1777-1825). Emperor of Russia
Russian leader who succeeded Lenin as head of the Communist Party and created a totalitarian state by purging all opposition (1879-1953). General secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union
United States writer whose novels explored human alienation (1916-1990). Southern philosophical novelist
an autonomous region of the Peoples Republic of China; located in the Himalayas. Autonomous Region of China
formal gardens next to the Louvre in Paris. public garden in Paris, France
French painter noted for his paintings of Parisian street scenes (1883-1955). French painter
a battle between the successors of Alexander the Great (301 BC); Lysimachus and Seleucus defeated Antigonus and Demetrius. battle
United States Arctic explorer and United States naval officer who has been regarded as the first man to reach the North Pole (1856-1920). explorer from the United States
French philosopher and theologian; lover of Heloise (1079-1142). French scholastic philosopher, theologian and preeminent logician
a long faint constellation in the southern hemisphere near the equator stretching between Virgo and Cancer. constellation straddling the celestial equator
French philosopher remembered as the founder of positivism; he also established sociology as a systematic field of study. French philosopher
a historic village in southeastern Virginia to the north of Newport News; site of the last battle of the American Revolution. CDP in Virginia
an Argentine revolutionary leader who was Fidel Castro's chief lieutenant in the Cuban revolution; active in other Latin American countries; was captured and executed by the Bolivian army (1928-1967). Argentine Marxist revolutionary
English actor of stage and screen (1893-1943). English actor
an important river in the southwestern United States; rises in the Rocky Mountains of northern Colorado and flows southwest through Utah into Arizona (where it flows through the Grand Canyon) and then southward through the southern tip of Nevada, then forming the border between California and Arizona and finally into Mexico where it empties into the Gulf of California; the main source of water in the southwestern United States. major river in the western United States and Mexico
United States artist remembered for her spontaneous approach to painting; she was a founder of the New York school of abstract expressionism (1908-1984). American artist
Swedish chemist remembered for his invention of dynamite and for the bequest that created the Nobel prizes (1833-1896). Swedish chemist, innovator, and armaments manufacturer
3rd largest island in the world; in the western Pacific to the north of Java; largely covered by dense jungle and rain forest; part of the Malay Archipelago. island
United States film actor (1901-1960). American actor
Scottish writer of rustic verse (1770-1835). British writer
a creek emptying into the Hellespont in present-day Turkey; at its mouth in 405 BC the Spartan fleet under Lysander defeated the Athenians and ended the Peloponnesian War. river in Turkey
an area of northern Africa between the Sahara and the Mediterranean Sea. northernmost region of the African continent
English explorer who reached the South Pole just a month after Amundsen; he and his party died on the return journey (1868-1912). Royal Navy officer and explorer
an Arab kingdom in southwestern Asia on the Red Sea. constitutional monarchy in Western Asia
a dungeon (20 feet square) in a fort in Calcutta where as many as 146 English prisoners were held overnight by Siraj-ud-daula; the next morning only 23 were still alive. black hole tragedy in tamil
Russian physicist (1895-1971). Russian physicist
a town in the northern panhandle of Idaho; popular resort area. city in Idaho, United States
United States writer (born in Poland) who wrote in Yiddish (1880-1957). Polish-American novelist, dramatist, essayist
Greek anatomist whose theories formed the basis of European medicine until the Renaissance (circa 130-200). Roman physician, surgeon and philosopher
a street in lower Manhattan where the New York Stock Exchange is located; symbol of American finance. street in Manhattan
English clergyman who invented the power loom (1743-1823). British inventor
a hard-line extremist Islamic group in Great Britain who support bin Laden and other terrorist groups. banned Salafi-Wahhabi Islamist terrorist organisation
soldier in the American Revolution who defeated the British in the battle of Cowpens, South Carolina (1736-1802). American pioneer, soldier and politician
Chinese military and political figure; in the Chinese civil war that followed World War II he was defeated by the Chinese communists and in 1949 was forced to withdraw to Taiwan where he served as president of Nationalist China until his death (1897-1975). Chinese politician and military leader
an important port of Yemen; located on the Gulf of Aden; its strategic location has made it a major trading center of southern Arabia since ancient times. ???? ?????? ??????
a city in western Switzerland; cultural and commercial center. capital city of the Swiss Canton of Vaud
a Palestinian international terrorist organization that split from the PLO in 1974; has conducted terrorist attacks in 20 countries. Palestinian terrorist organization
a tributary of the Mississippi River in Wisconsin. river in Wisconsin, United States
a town in west central Tennessee. city in Tennessee, USA
king of Assyria who built a magnificent palace and library at Nineveh (668-627 BC). Assyrian ruler
a battle in 680 in which the grandson of Mohammed and his followers were killed. 10 Muharram 61, October 10, 680 AD
American Revolutionary leader from Virginia whose objections led to the drafting of the Bill of Rights (1725-1792). American delegate from Virginia to the U.S. Constitutional Convention
a town that is the chief port of the Aland islands. capital of ?land, Finland
United States writer of stories and plays (1894-1946). American screenwriter, director, producer, playwright, journalist and novelist
a city on the River Aire in West Yorkshire in northern England; a center of the clothing industry. city in West Yorkshire, England
the southern extension of Hudson Bay in Canada between western Quebec and northeastern Ontario. bay on the southern end of the Hudson Bay, Canada
English composer of operettas who collaborated with the librettist William Gilbert (1842-1900). English composer of the Gilbert & Sullivan duo
an open-source version of the UNIX operating system. operating system family use the Linux kernel
chief deity of Zoroastrianism; source of light and embodiment of good. deity of Zoroastrianism
Cuban poet and revolutionary who fought for Cuban independence from Spain (1853-1895). Cuban poet, writer, and nationalist leader
(Roman Catholic Church) the Lord's Prayer in Latin; translates as `our father'. central prayer in Christianity
a small republic in the eastern Pyrenees between Spain and France. European microstate between France and Spain
a town of southeast Michigan on Lake Erie. city in the U.S. state of Michigan
a large peninsula of Antarctica that extends some 1200 miles north toward South America; separates the Weddell Sea from the South Pacific. peninsula
New Zealand writer of short stories (1888-1923). New Zealand author
English poet (1554-1586). English poet, courtier, diplomat
German romantic composer known for piano music and songs (1810-1856). German composer
United States writer (1902-1992). writer, educator, political activist
Celtic war goddess. deity
(Anglican Church) a daily evening service with prayers prescribed in the Book of Common Prayer. Anglican prayer service
United States writer (born 1919). American writer
a lake in northern Ethiopia; the largest lake in Ethiopia and the source of the Blue Nile. lake in Ethiopia
French feminist and existentialist and novelist (1908-1986). French writer, intellectual, existentialist philosopher, political activist, feminist, and social theorist
Greek geometer (3rd century BC). Greek mathematician, inventor of axiomatic geometry
a city in southern Pakistan on the Indus River. City of the Sindh Province
United States film actress who appeared in many films with Spencer Tracy (1907-2003). British-Dutch actress
United States film maker remembered for his extravagant and spectacular epic productions (1881-1959). American film director
United States journalist who wrote a syndicated column of advice to the lovelorn (1870-1951). American newspaper columnist
according to the Old Testament he was a pagan king of Israel and husband of Jezebel (9th century BC). King of Israel, the son and successor of Omri, and the husband of Jezebel; portrayed in the Hebrew Bible as a wicked person
United States dancer and choreographer who introduced formal dance to a wide audience (1905-1993). American dancer and choreographer
a fashionable residential street in New York City. avenue in Manhattan
English historian noted for his history of England (1800-1859). British historian and Whig politician
an eastern arm of the Baltic Sea; between Finland and Estonia. arm of the Baltic Sea
last 2 million years. third and current period of the Cenozoic Era
a strategically located island to the south of Sicily in the Mediterranean Sea. island republic in Europe
a port town in southeastern New Hampshire on the Atlantic Ocean. city in Rockingham County, New Hampshire, United States
a collection of 13 ancient papyrus codices translated from Greek into Coptic that were discovered by farmers near the town of Nag Hammadi in 1945; the codices contain 45 distinct works including the chief sources of firsthand knowledge of Gnosticism. collection of early Christian and Gnostic texts discovered near the Upper Egyptian town of Nag Hammadi in 1945
city in northwestern Jordan. city in Jordan
a port city in southeastern France on the Mediterranean. commune in Bouches-du-Rh?ne, the second largest city of France
a Massachusetts peninsula to the north of Boston extending into the Atlantic Ocean. Cape in Massachusetts, USA
a desert on the Sinai Peninsula in northeastern Egypt. peninsula in the Red Sea
French writer of sophisticated novels and short stories (1844-1924). French writer
(Greek mythology) goddess of fertility and protector of marriage in ancient mythology; counterpart of Roman Ceres. Greek goddess of the harvest
the largest city in Alabama; located in northeastern Alabama. county seat city in Jefferson County, Alabama, USA
Swiss linguist and expert in historical linguistics whose lectures laid the foundations for synchronic linguistics (1857-1913). Swiss linguist
a large park in Manhattan. public park at the center of Manhattan in New York City, New York, United States
British maker of printed calico cloth who invented mercerizing (1791-1866). English chemist and fabric printer
French architect who was among the first to use metal construction successfully (1801-1875). French architect
an archipelago in the North Pacific extending southwest from Alaska. chain of islands in the Northern Pacific
English prelate noted for his pessimistic sermons and articles (1860-1954). Dean of St Pauls
British labor leader and statesman who played an important role in diplomacy after World War II (1884-1951). British labour leader, politician, and statesman
a terrorist group formed in 1977 as the result of a split with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine; became a satellite of al-Fatah; made terrorist attacks on Israel across the Lebanese border. political party
an Old Testament book telling the prophecies of Micah foretelling the destruction of Jerusalem. book of the bible
British poet (born in the United States) who won the Nobel prize for literature; his plays are outstanding examples of modern verse drama (1888-1965). English author
the smallest of the four main islands of Japan; to the south of Honshu and to the east of Kyushu; separated from Honshu by the Inland Sea; forested and mountainous. smallest of the four main islands of Japan
English general; son of George II; fought unsuccessfully in the battle of Fontenoy (1721-1765). British Army general
celebrated Scottish poet (1759-1796). Scottish poet and lyricist
United States actor (born in England) who was the elegant leading man in many films (1904-1986). British-American actor
a state of political hostility that existed from 1945 until 1990 between countries led by the Soviet Union and countries led by the United States. state of geopolitical tension after World War II between powers in the Eastern Bloc and the Western Bloc
a gulf of the Pacific Ocean between the Alaska Peninsula and the Alexander Archipelago. gulf
king of Prussia who violently suppressed democratic movements (1795-1865). King of Prussia
English clergyman and colonist who was expelled from Massachusetts for criticizing Puritanism; he founded Providence in 1636 and obtained a royal charter for Rhode Island in 1663 (1603-1683). English Protestant theologian and founder of the colony of Providence Plantation
a group of islands in the Bismarck Archipelago. archipelago in the South Pacific Ocean
United States abolitionist (1803-1895). American abolitionist
a university in Seattle, Washington. public research university in Seattle, Washington, United States
Italian poet who wrote an epic poem about the capture of Jerusalem during the First Crusade (1544-1595). Italian poet
Swedish botanist who proposed the modern system of biological nomenclature (1707-1778). Swedish botanist, physician, and zoologist
United States politician and diplomat (1900-1968). mid-20th-century Governor of Illinois and Ambassador to the UN
French painter (1684-1721). French painter of the Rococo era
a battle in which Mexican forces defeated the French in 1862. part of the French intervention in Mexico
a terrorist organization in Bolivia that acts as an umbrella for numerous small indigenous subversive groups; a revival of a group with Marxist-Leninist ideologies originally established by Che Guevara in the 1960s. group of mainly Bolivian and Cuban guerrillas led by Che Guevara which was active in the Cordillera Province, Bolivia from 1966 to 1967
imaginary people who live on the planet Mars. extraterrestrial life
King and patron saint of Norway (995-1030). king of Norway
Belgian racing cyclist who won the Tour de France five times (born in 1945). Belgian cyclist
Russian composer of operas and orchestral works; often used themes from folk music (1844-1908). Russian composer
son of Henry II of France and the last Valois to be king of France (1551-1589). King of France and Poland
a mountain peak in the Andes in Bolivia (21,391 feet high). mountain
a town in Czech Republic where Pilsner beer originated. Czech city
English playwright (1929-1994). English playwright
United States architect (born in Estonia) (1901-1974). American architect
United States race driver who was the first to drive faster than a mile a minute (1878-1946). American racing driver
naval battle of World War II (June 1942); American planes based on land and on carriers decisively defeated a Japanese fleet on its way to invade the Midway Islands. World War II naval battle in the Pacific Ocean
United States naval officer and historian (1840-1914). United States Navy admiral and historian
Italian filmmaker (1920-1993). Italian filmmaker
the god who fathered the islands and gods of Japan with his sister Izanami. Japanese god
Italian composer (1567-1643). Italian composer and pornographic
a desert in eastern Iran. desert
United States surrealist painter (born in France) (1900-1955). French painter
German poet (1724-1803). German poet, writer and linguist
English chemist who studied the quantities of gas absorbed by water at different temperatures and under different pressures (1775-1836). British chemist
Babylonian and Assyrian goddess of love and fertility and war; counterpart to the Phoenician Astarte. East Semitic Akkadian, Assyrian and Babylonian goddess of fertility, love, war, and sex
the capital and largest city of Mongolia. capital of Mongolia
an ethnic Kurdish group of Sunni extremists formed in the late 1980s in southeastern Turkey; seeks to replace Turkey's secular regime with an Islamic state and strict shariah law; responsible for bombings and the torture and murder of Turkish and Kurdish journalists and businessmen; receives support from Iran. Islamist terror organization
a republic in southern North America; became independent from Spain in 1810. federal republic in the southern portion of North America
Scottish archaeologist (1890-1976). British archaeologist
a tributary of the Mississippi River that rises in Missouri and flows southeastward through Arkansas. river in the United States of America
(Roman Catholic Church) one of the great Fathers of the early Christian Church whose major work was his translation of the Scriptures from Hebrew and Greek into Latin (which became the Vulgate); a saint and Doctor of the Church (347-420). Catholic saint and Doctor of the Church
a European river in southwestern Russia; flows into the Sea of Azov. Russian river
English pathologist who discovered the cause of trichinosis (1814-1899). British scientist
a busy port and financial center in northern Belgium on the Scheldt river; it has long been a center for the diamond industry and the first stock exchange was opened there in 1460. city in the province of Antwerp, Belgium
a group of volcanic islands in the Atlantic Ocean to the west of Morocco; the group forms an autonomous region of Portugal. Autonomous Region of Portugal in the archipelago of Madeira
United States poet famous for his lyrical poems on country life in New England (1874-1963). American poet
Elector of Hanover and the first Hanoverian King of Great Britain and Ireland from 1714 to 1727 (1660-1727). King of Great Britain, Elector of Hanover
a German city near Leipzig; scene of the adoption in 1919 of the constitution of the Weimar Republic that lasted until 1933. city in Thuringia, Germany
British physicist who invented the Kelvin scale of temperature and pioneered undersea telegraphy (1824-1907). physician and Registrar General from Ireland, born 1861
English general considered one of the greatest generals in history (1650-1722). English soldier and statesman
French economist who advocated a Common Market in Europe (1888-1979). French political economist regarded by many as a chief architect of European unity
one the Shinto deities (including mythological beings, spirits of distinguished men, forces of nature). divine being in Shinto
Rhodesian statesman who declared independence of Zimbabwe from Great Britain (born in 1919). Prime Minister of Rhodesia
United States architect who invented the geodesic dome (1895-1983). American architect, systems theorist, author, designer, inventor and futurist
German printer who invented lithography (1771-1834). German inventor
a fortification 37 miles long across the narrowest part of southern Scotland (between the Firth of Forth and the Firth of Clyde); built in 140 to mark the frontier of the Roman province of Britain. defensive fortification in Roman Britain
(Old Testament) eldest son of Noah. Biblical figure, son of Noah
Byzantine emperor who held the eastern frontier of his empire against the Persians; codified Roman law in 529; his general Belisarius regained North Africa and Spain (483-565). Eastern Roman Emperor (Byzantine Emperor)
a battle (333 BC) in which Alexander the Great defeated the Persians under Darius III. the second great battle of Alexander's conquest of Asia
(Greek mythology) the Titaness who was mother of Helios and Selene and Eos in ancient mythology. female Titan in Greek mythology
more than 130 southeastern Virgin Islands; a dependent territory of the United States. group of islands in the Caribbean
the site of the royal residence and the de facto capital in the western part of the Netherlands; seat of the International Court of Justice. municipality in the Netherlands, seat of the Dutch government
(Norse mythology) an enormous wolf that was fathered by Loki and that killed Odin. monstrous wolf in Norse mythology
the first New Testament book traditionally attributed to Saint Peter the Apostle. book of the Bible
United States religious leader (born in Korea) who founded the Unification Church in 1954; was found guilty of conspiracy to evade taxes (born in 1920). Korean religious leader
a river in northeastern Florida that flows northward to Jacksonville and then eastward to empty into the Atlantic Ocean. river in Florida
Czechoslovakian chemist who developed polarography (1890-1967). Czech chemist
United States writer of short stories whose pen name was O. Henry (1862-1910). American short story writer
(Old Testament) a famous hunter. king of Shinar
the largest city in Montana; located in southern Montana on the Yellowstone river. city in Montana, United States of America
Emperor of Rome; nephew and son-in-law and adoptive son of Antonius Pius; Stoic philosopher; the decline of the Roman Empire began under Marcus Aurelius (121-180). Emperor of Ancient Rome
English writer of comic novels (1904-1973). British writer
a national park in California featuring a redwood forest and Pacific Ocean coastline. collaborative group of parks in California
Russian dancer who was often the partner of Dame Margot Fonteyn and who defected to the United States in 1961 (born in 1938). Soviet ballet dancer and choreographer
Austrian organist and composer of romantic music (1824-1896). Austrian composer
English comparative anatomist and paleontologist who was an opponent of Darwinism (1804-1892). English biologist
C. Northcote Parkinson's cynical observation that the number of subordinates in an organization will increase linearly regardless of the amount of work to be done. adage
a town in northeast Mississippi. city in and county seat of Lee County, Mississippi, United States
poet in colonial America (born in England) (1612-1672). Anglo-American poet
the state capital of Connecticut; located in central Connecticut on the Connecticut river; a center of the insurance business. city in and capital of Connecticut, United States
queen of France as the wife of Louis VII; that marriage was annulled in 1152 and she then married Henry II and became Queen of England (1122-1204). Queen consort, patroness
a zone consisting of a strip of land across the Isthmus of Panama that contains the Panama Canal. former U.S. territory within the Republic of Panama
United States inventor and manufacturer of a mechanical harvester (1809-1884). American inventor and businessman
Scottish statesman and brother of Elizabeth and John Haldane (1856-1928). British Liberal Imperialist and later Labour politician, lawyer and philosopher
United States broadcast journalist remembered for his reports from London during World War II (1908-1965). American broadcast journalist
United States pathologist (born in Austria) who discovered human blood groups (1868-1943). Austrian biologist, physicist and Nobel Prize laureate
the 2nd largest of the Great Lakes. one of the Great Lakes of North America
United States jurist who served as chief justice of the United States Supreme Court (1862-1948). American judge
the region of Paris on the southern bank of the Seine; a center of artistic and student life. part of Paris on the south bank of the Seine
czar of Russia from 1825 to 1855 who led Russia into the Crimean War (1796-1855). Emperor of Russia
the closest of Jupiter's moons; has active volcanoes. innermost of the four Galilean moons of Jupiter
(Arthurian legend) the most virtuous knight of the Round Table; was able to see the Holy Grail. knight of the round table
Ukranian poet (1814-1861). Ukrainian poet and painter
a wall in Jerusalem; sacred to Jews as a place of prayer and lamentation; its stones are believed to have formed part of the Temple of Solomon. holy site in Jerusalem
English logician who introduced Venn diagrams (1834-1923). English logician and philosopher
King of England and Scotland and Ireland during the Restoration (1630-1685). King of England, Ireland and Scotland
French cabaret singer (1915-1963). French singer
prime mover in the conspiracy against Julius Caesar (died in 42 BC). Roman politician
United States comedian (born in England) who appeared in films with Bing Crosby (1903-2003). American comedian, actor, singer and dancer
composer who was born in Russia but lived in the United States after 1939 (1882-1971). Russian composer, pianist and conductor
an ancient city is southern Greece; center of the Mycenaean civilization during the late Bronze Age. archaeological site in Greece
the state capital and largest city located in south central Arizona; situated in a former desert that has become a prosperous agricultural area thanks to irrigation. county seat and capital city in Maricopa County, Arizona, USA, fifth largest city in the United States by population
United States prizefighter who won the world heavyweight championship by defeating Jack Dempsey twice (1898-1978). American boxer
a mischievous boy in a novel by Mark Twain. fictional character
an island of central Hawaii; a pineapple-growing area. island in the United States of America
English writer (1925-1994). British writer
in the Arabian Nights a boy who acquires a magic lamp from which he can summon a genie. Middle Eastern folk tale
United States humorist remembered for his homespun commentary on politics and American society (1879-1935). American humorist and entertainer
Spanish cubist painter (1887-1927). Spanish painter and sculptor
United States philosopher (1876-1957). American philosopher
United States religious and writer (1915-1968). priest and author
a mountainous republic in southeastern Asia on the Bay of Bengal. sovereign state in Southeast Asia
in 1781 the British under Cornwallis surrendered after a siege of three weeks by American and French troops; the surrender ended the American Revolution. Last battle of the American Revolutionary War
a large saltwater lake between Iran and Russia fed by the Volga River; the largest inland body of water in the world. lake in Asia and Europe, largest enclosed inland body of water on Earth
United States film actress (1938-1981). American actress
Barbary pirate (died in 1546). Ottoman admiral
Danish physicist (1777-1851). Danish physicist and chemist
a city in northwestern Germany and an important Baltic port; a leading member of the Hanseatic League. city in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany
sun god; counterpart of Akkadian Shamash. Sumerian god
Soviet writer and political dissident whose novels exposed the brutality of Soviet labor camps (born in 1918). Russian writer
a Eurasian republic in Asia Minor and the Balkans; on the collapse of the Ottoman Empire in 1918, the Young Turks, led by Kemal Ataturk, established a republic in 1923. country spanning Western Asia and Southeastern Europe
English playwright (1580-1625). English dramatist
the Greek goddess of fate who cuts the thread of life. one of the Fates of Greek Mythology
Roman author of an encyclopedic natural history; died while observing the eruption of Vesuvius (23-79). Roman military commander and writer
an arm of the Gulf of Mexico in west central Florida. Estuary and natural harbor in Florida, off the Gulf of Mexico
a city in southeastern Ontario on the Detroit River opposite Detroit. city in Essex County, Ontario, Canada
United States contralto noted for her performance of spirituals (1902-1993). African-American contralto
Italian violin maker and grandson of Andrea Guarneri (1687?-1745). Italian luthier
English chemist who isolated many gases and discovered oxygen (independently of Scheele) (1733-1804). English theologian, chemist, educator, and political theorist
an inlet of the Pacific Ocean off the coast of British Columbia. sound of the Pacific Ocean in British Columbia, Canada
a town in the Northwest Territories in northern Canada on the Great Slave Lake. capital of Northwest Territories
a town in south central Louisiana; settled by Acadians. fourth-largest city in Louisiana
Norwegian economist noted for his work in econometrics (1895-1973). Norwegian economist
port and resort city in northwestern Jamaica. capital of Saint James Parish, Jamaica
first woman aviator to fly solo nonstop across the Atlantic (1928); while attempting to fly around the world she disappeared over the Pacific (1898-1937). American aviation pioneer and author
Italian patriot whose conquest of Sicily and Naples led to the formation of the Italian state (1807-1882). Italian general and politician
United States anthropologist noted for his studies of culture (1876-1960). American anthropologist
anthropologist and linguist; studied languages of North American Indians (1884-1939). American linguist and anthropologist
an archipelago off southern South America; separated from the continent by the Strait of Magellan; islands are administered by Chile and by Argentina. archipelago off the south of South America
a headstream of the Nile; joins the Blue Nile at Khartoum to form the Nile. river in Africa and tributary of the Nile River
a town in north central Wisconsin. city in and county seat of Marathon County, Wisconsin
a republic on the island of Ceylon; became independent of the United Kingdom in 1948. island republic in South Asia
a former British mandate on the east coast of the Mediterranean; divided between Jordan and Israel in 1948. geographical region in the Middle East; use Q42620 for the interim government
a city in northern Mexico to the west of Monterrey. City in Torre뮁塋 Municipality, Coahuila, Mexico
the strait separating Sicily from the tip of Italy. strait between Sicily and Calabria
American Revolutionary leader who was one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence (1742-1798). one of the Founding Fathers of the United States and a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence
American Revolutionary leader who served in the Continental Congress and as minister to France (1746-1813). American judge
United States architect who designed the Capitol Building in Washington which served as a model for state capitols throughout the United States (1763-1844). American architect
English writer noted for his crime novels (1875-1932). British crime writer, journalist and playwright
commander of the British forces in the American War of Independence; was defeated by American and French troops at Yorktown (1738-1805). British general, colonial official, diplomat
(Greek mythology) Greek god of light; god of prophecy and poetry and music and healing; son of Zeus and Leto; twin brother of Artemis. god in Greek mythology
one of the British colonies that formed the United States. state of the United States
a landlocked republic in south-central Africa that became independent from British control in the 1960s. republic in southern Africa
an ancient country is eastern Asia Minor. province of the Roman Empire in Anatolia
central deity of Shinto; goddess personifying the sun and ancestress of the rulers of Japan. goddess of the sun in the Shinto faith
one of the three wars between Carthage and Rome that resulted in the destruction of Carthage and its annexation by Rome; 264-241 BC, 218-201 BC, 149-146 BC. series of three wars fought between Rome and Carthage from 264 BC to 146 BC, at the time probably the largest wars that had ever taken place
a mountainous region of central Italy on the Adriatic. region in Italy
a city in California on the eastern shore of San Francisco Bay; site of the University of California at Berkeley. city in Alameda County, California, United States
United States jurist who served as chief justice of the United States Supreme Court (1891-1974). United States federal judge
a city in southern India to the southwest of Bangalore. city in the state of Karnataka, India
the highest mountain in the western hemisphere; located in the Andes in western Argentina (22,834 feet high). highest mountain in South America(6962 m)
United States businessman who unified the telegraph system in the United States and who in 1865 (with Andrew D. White) founded Cornell University (1807-1874). American businessman
Holy Roman Emperor and king of Bohemia and Hungary who waged war against Protestant forces (1578-1637). Archduke of Austria, 1619 to 1637 Holy Roman Emperor, King of Hungary and Bohemia
Wampanoag leader who aided the Pilgrims (1580-1661). Leader of the Wampanoag
United States poet (1849-1916). American poet from Indianapolis
United States illustrator whose works present a sentimental idealized view of everyday life (1894-1978). American painter
English astronomer remembered for his popular elucidation of relativity theory (1882-1944). British astrophysicist
the document recording the proclamation of the second Continental Congress (4 July 1776) asserting the independence of the Colonies from Great Britain. announcement by which the American colonies declared their independence from Great Britain and thus founded the United States
United States abolitionist who published an anti-slavery journal (1805-1879). American journalist
a former province of northern France near the English Channel (between Picardy and Flanders). countship
a chain of islands in the North Sea off the coast of northwestern Europe extending from the IJsselmeer to Jutland. archipelago in the Wadden Sea
a city in southern Malawi; was the capital until 1971. city in the southern parts of Malawi
the mythical Greek warrior with an unusually loud voice who died after losing a shouting contest with Hermes. mythical character
a king of the Myrmidons and father of Achilles. mythical character
Czech composer who combined folk elements with traditional forms (1841-1904). Czech composer
a mountain in the Alps in Switzerland (14,804 feet high). mountain in the Pennine Alps
United States theoretical physicist (born in 1933). American theoretical physicist
the highest point in Paris; famous for its associations with many artists. hill in the north of Paris, France
United States architect (born in England) whose works include the chambers of the United States Congress and the Supreme Court; considered the first professional architect in the United States (1764-1820). British-American architect
a region in northmost Europe inhabited by Lapps. cultural region traditionally inhabited by the Sami people, traditionally known as Lapps.
an Asian republic in the Middle East at the east end of the Mediterranean; site of some of the world's most ancient centers of civilization. republic in Western Asia
United States painter (1898-1954). American painter
a river in eastern Massachusetts that empties into Boston Harbor and that separates Cambridge from Boston. river in Massachusetts, United States
ancient Greek philosopher who founded the Stoic school (circa 335-263 BC). ancient Greek philosopher
a channel in southeastern Virginia through which the Elizabeth River and the James River flow into Chesapeake Bay. geographic area in south-east Virginia, United States
German engineer and automobile manufacturer who produced the first high-speed internal combustion engine (1834-1900). German businessman
a parliamentary democracy on the eastern half of the island of New Guinea; in 1975 it became an independent state within the Commonwealth of Nations. constitutional monarchy in Oceania
English landscape painter whose treatment of light and color influenced the French impressionists (1775-1851). British painter, water-colourist, and printmaker
United States actor and filmmaker (1915-1985). American actor, director, writer and producer
French painter and exponent of fauvism (1876-1958). French painter
United States film actor who played tough heroes (1907-1979). American actor
the Arab prophet who, according to Islam, was the last messenger of Allah (570-632). Arabian religious leader and the founder of Islam
Roman Emperor and adoptive son of Nerva; extended the Roman Empire to the east and conducted an extensive program of building (53-117). Emperor of Ancient Rome
Italian fascist dictator (1883-1945). Duce and President of the Council of Ministers of Italy. Leader of the National Fascist Party and subsequent Republican Fascist Party
(Greek mythology) king of Ethiopia and husband of Cassiopeia. mythical character
a constitutional monarchy in a tiny enclave on the French Riviera. principality in Western Europe
Danish writer who lived in Kenya for 19 years and is remembered for her writings about Africa (1885-1962). Danish writer
French neoclassical painter who actively supported the French Revolution (1748-1825). French painter
the treaty signed in 1949 by 12 countries that established NATO. treaty
United States writer and soldier who led the first Black regiment in the Union Army (1823-1911). Union United States Army officer
an island country in the Persian Gulf off the coast of Saudi Arabia; oil revenues funded progressive programs until reserves were exhausted in 1970s. constitutional monarchy in Southwest Asia
German naturalist whose speculations that plants and animals are made up of tiny living `infusoria' led to the cell theory (1779-1851). German naturalist
the German mistress of Adolf Hitler (1910-1945). longtime companion and later wife of Adolf Hitler
a university in New York City. private Ivy League research university in New York City
a port city is southern Indonesia; located in northern Java. city of Central Java Province, on the island of Java, in Indonesia
United States writer of plays and short stories (1908-1981). American writer
son of Edward III who defeated the French at Crecy and Poitiers in the Hundred Years' War (1330-1376). Prince of Wales
(Judaism) sacred chest where the ancient Hebrews kept the two tablets containing the Ten Commandments. religious artifact of the Hebrew religion
the eleventh sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about January 20 to February 18. zodiac constellation straddling the celestial equator
Russian writer who introduced realism to Russian literature (1809-1852). Ukrainian writer
an English nobleman who led the baronial rebellion against Henry III (1208-1265). Anglo-Norman nobleman who led a rebellion against King Henry III of England
an ancient city in northeastern China noted for coal mining and steel production. capital city of Shanxi province, China
British actor and playwright (1921-2004). British actor, writer, and dramatist
the capital and largest city of Mexico is a political and cultural and commercial and industrial center; one of the world's largest cities. capital city of Mexico
United States novelist (1909-1955). American author, journalist, poet, screenwriter and film critic
a city of northwestern Germany linked by the Weser River to the port of Bremerhaven and the North Sea; in the Middle Ages it was a leading member of the Hanseatic League. city in the Bremen federated state, Germany
an inactive volcano in the Andes in southern Colombia; last erupted in 1950. mountain in Colombia
English poet (1618-1857). English writer and poet
a national park in South Dakota having multicolored peaks and spires resulting from erosion; fossil sites. US National Park in southwest South Dakota
a New Testament book containing Saint Paul's first epistle to Timothy; contains advice on pastoral matters. book of the Bible
an ancient Egyptian city on the west bank of the Nile opposite Cairo; site of three Great Pyramids and the Sphinx. City in Egypt
Boer statesman (1825-1904). President of the South African Republic
a constellation in the Milky Way near Cygnus; contains the star Altair. constellation
a Welsh pirate credited with having taken more than 400 ships (1682-1722). Welsh pirate
the capital of Saint Kitts and Nevis on the island of Saint Christopher. capital of Saint Kitts and Nevis
United States soprano (1897-1981). American operatic soprano
a North American river; boundary between the United States and Mexico; flows into Gulf of Mexico. river forming part of the US-Mexico border
German physiologist and histologist who in 1838 formulated the cell theory (1804-1881). botanist and philosopher
a presocratic Athenian philosopher who maintained that everything is composed of very small particles that were arranged by some eternal intelligence (500-428 BC). ancient Greek philosopher
United States pediatrician whose many books on child care influenced the upbringing of children around the world (1903-1998). American pediatrician and author of Baby and Child Care
United States author of sometimes surrealistic stories (1931-1989). American writer, editor, and professor
Italian cardinal and military leader; model for Machiavelli's prince (1475-1507). Duke of Romagna and former Catholic cardinal
a former kingdom in north-central Europe including present-day northern Germany and northern Poland. state in Central Europe between 1525뼰1947
United States newspaper publisher (born in Hungary) who established the Pulitzer prizes (1847-1911). Hungarian-American newspaper publisher
a small northern constellation near Perseus between Andromeda and Aries. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
a mountain in the Himalayas in Tibet (26,290 feet high). mountain in China
the largest reservoir in the United States; located in southeastern Nevada and northwestern Arizona and formed by the Hoover Dam on the Colorado River; the center of a recreational area. reservoir on the Colorado River, Nevada and Arizona in the United States
(Greek mythology) ancient god of the sun; drove his chariot across the sky each day; identified with Roman Sol. personification of the Sun in the Greek mythology
German psychiatrist (1883-1969). German psychiatrist and philosopher
United States female author who wrote a book and a syndicated newspaper column on etiquette (1872-1960). American etiquette expert
a town in southwestern California on the Pacific Ocean. city in California, United States
French operatic composer (1799-1862). French composer
the fictional storyteller of tales written in the Black Vernacular and set in the South; the tales were first collected and published in book form in 1880. fairy tale of South United States
German philosopher who developed phenomenology (1859-1938). German philosopher, known as the father of phenomenology
Egyptian god of the morning sun; creator. Egyptian deity of the rising sun
United States inventor of an improved chain-stitch sewing machine (1811-1875). American businessman, inventor of the Singer sewing machine
the brightest star in Ursa Minor; at the end of the handle of the Little Dipper; the northern axis of the earth points toward it. brightest star in the constellation Ursa Minor
a Greek island in the northern Aegean Sea; famous for a reddish-brown clay that has medicinal properties. island of Greece
the capital of Maldives in the center of the islands. capital of Maldives
French choreographer and ballet dancer (born in Russia) (1895-1979). ballet dancer
(Old Testament) Cain and Abel were the first children of Adam and Eve born after the Fall of Man; Cain killed Abel out of jealousy and was exiled by God. Biblical figures
a city in central southwestern Iran; ruins of ancient Persepolis are nearby. city in Fars Province, Iran
a Nazi concentration camp for Jews in southwestern Poland during World War II. network of concentration and extermination camps
South African statesman who was released from prison to become the nation's first democratically elected president in 1994 (born in 1918). President of South Africa, anti-apartheid activist
a mountain range in south central Alaska; contains Mount McKinley. mountain range of the North American Cordillera in Alaska, USA and Yukon, Canada
a large shallow lake in western Hungary. freshwater lake in Hungary
a city in Indonesia; located on western Java (southeast of Jakarta); a resort known for its climate. city in Indonesia
a historical area and former kingdom in northwestern Spain. region of Spain
English novelist (1867-1933). English novelist and playwright
United States singer who died of a drug overdose at the height of her popularity (1943-1970). American singer and songwriter
an Apocryphal book describing the life of Judas Maccabaeus. book
a river that rises in southwestern Virginia and flows generally southwestward across eastern Tennessee to the Tennessee River. river in the United States of America
an island in the Gulf of Guinea that is part of Equatorial Guinea. island
a broadly based stock market index. subsidiary company
English physicist who established the mechanical theory of heat and discovered the first law of thermodynamics (1818-1889). English physicist and brewer
a multiple star with 6 components; second brightest in Gemini; close to Pollux. star in the constellation Gemini
Italian printer who designed the Bodoni font (1740-1813). Italian typographer, type-designer, compositor, printer and publisher in Parma
a republic in southern South America; second largest country in South America. federal republic in South America
a city in west central Connecticut. city in New Haven County, Connecticut, United States
United States tennis player who dominated men's tennis in the 1920s (1893-1953). American tennis player
United States divorcee whose marriage to Edward VIII created a constitutional crisis leading to his abdication. wife of Edward VIII of the United Kingdom
emperor of Japan who renounced his divinity and became a constitutional monarch after Japan surrendered at the end of World War II (1901-1989). Emperor of Japan from 1926 until 1989
a national park in South Dakota featuring bison herds and limestone caverns. national park in South Dakota, USA
a member of the Taoist Trinity; identified with Lao-tse. the three highest gods in the Taoist pantheon, regarded as pure manifestation of the Tao and the origin of all sentient beings
a republic in northeastern Europe on the Baltic Sea. republic in Northeastern Europe
an avenue in Manhattan that runs north and south. avenue in Manhattan
a battle in the Apennines in 321 BC in which the Samnites defeated the Romans. battle
a republic in northeastern South America on the Atlantic; achieved independence from the Netherlands in 1975. country in South America
a city in western Nevada at the foot of the Sierra Nevada Mountains; known for gambling casinos and easy divorce and remarriage. county seat of Washoe County, Nevada, United States
United States writer and poet (1905-1989). American poet, novelist, and literary critic
a southeastern suburb of Paris; site of an international airport serving Paris. commune in Val-de-Marne, France
the highest peak in Africa; located in northeastern Tanzania; 19,340 feet high. mountain massif in Kilimanjaro National Park in Tanzania
United States nurse who campaigned for birth control and planned parenthood; she challenged Gregory Pincus to develop a birth control pill (1883-1966). American birth control activist, educator and nurse
a theocratic Islamic republic in the Middle East in western Asia; Iran was the core of the ancient empire that was known as Persia until 1935; rich in oil. Islamic Republic in Western Asia
a former empire in eastern Europe and northern Asia created in the 14th century with Moscow as the capital; powerful in the 17th and 18th centuries under Peter the Great and Catherine the Great when Saint Petersburg was the capital; overthrown by revolution in 1917. transcontinental country in Eastern Europe and Northern Asia
an arm of the southern Pacific Ocean in Antarctica. deep bay of the Southern Ocean in Antarctica
the largest Australian city located in southeastern Australia on the Tasman Sea; state capital of New South Wales; Australia's chief port. capital city of New South Wales, Australia|largest city of Australia
king of Wessex; defeated the Vikings and encouraged writing in English (849-899). King of Wessex
Italian theologian who argued against Trinitarianism (1539-1604). Polish-Italian theologian
a mountain range in central Europe that extends from Slovakia and southern Poland southeastward through western Ukraine to northeastern Romania; a popular resort area. mountain range in Central and Eastern Europe
the capital and only city of San Marino. capital city of San Marino
United States architect who was the presidentially appointed architect of Washington D.C. (1781-1855). American architect
the boy hero of a novel by Mark Twain. title character of the novel The Adventures of Tom Sawyer by Mark Twain
a town in southeast central Arkansas on the Arkansas River. city in and county seat of Jefferson County, Arkansas
a river in northwestern Russia flowing generally north into Lake Ladoga. river in Russia
United States poet who celebrated the greatness of America (1819-1892). American poet, essayist and journalist
Danish novelist (1857-1919). Danish writer
printer whose success as an author led him to take up politics; he helped draw up the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution; he played a major role in the American Revolution and negotiated French support for the colonists; as a scientist he is remembered particularly for his research in electricity (1706-1790). American author, printer, political theorist, politician, postmaster, scientist, inventor, civic activist, statesman, diplomat, and Founding Father
United States humorist and writer of satirical short stories (1885-1933). Journalist, screenwriter
United States film actor (born in Hungary) noted for portraying monsters (1884-1956). Hungarian actor
United States cook who was an immune carrier of typhoid fever and who infected dozens of people (1870-1938). infected houseworker in New York City
city in the Transvaal; the seat of the executive branch of the government of South Africa. capital city of South Africa
the capital of Guinea-Bissau. capital city of Guinea-Bissau
United States commodore who led the fleet that defeated the British on Lake Erie during the War of 1812; brother of Matthew Calbraith Perry (1785-1819). United States Naval Officer
United States humorist (1889-1945). American writer and actor
the hero of William Shakespeare's tragedy who would not trust his wife. character in Shakespeare's Othello; a Moorish soldier in the service of the Venetian Republic, who elopes with Desdemona, murders her, and kills himself
the capital and largest city and major port of Surinam. capital of Suriname
a town in north central Arizona; site of an important observatory. city in Arizona, USA
the second of two Old Testament books telling the history of Judah and Israel until the return from the Babylonian Captivity in 536 BC. the final books of the Jewish bible
United States social reformer who pioneered in the reform of prisons and in the treatment of the mentally ill; superintended women army nurses during the American Civil War (1802-1887). American social reformer
a city of north central North Carolina; site of Duke University. county seat of Durham County, North Carolina, United States
a river in eastern Illinois that flows southeastward to the Wabash River. river in the United States of America
a wooded region in northeastern Virginia near Spotsylvania where bloody but inconclusive battles were fought in the American Civil War. human settlement in Virginia, United States of America
Russian poet (1799-1837). Russian poet
the revolution in France against the Bourbons; 1789-1799. social and political revolution in France and its colonies occurring from 1789 to 1798
Irish statesman (born in the United States); as president of the Irish Free State he was responsible for the new constitution of 1937 that created the state of Eire (1882-1975). 3rd President of Ireland
United States jazz pianist who was almost completely blind; his innovations influenced many other jazz musicians (1910-1956). American jazz pianist
a city in the northern panhandle of West Virginia on the Ohio river. city in West Virginia
the fifth book of the Old Testament; contains a second statement of Mosaic law. fifth book of the Old testament
a state in northwestern Germany. state of Germany
an island in western Scotland in the Inner Hebrides. Wikimedia disambiguation page
hero of American folk tales; portrayed as an enormously strong black man who worked on the railroads and died from exhaustion after winning a contest with a steam drill. folklore character
British pathologist who isolated and purified penicillin, which had been discovered in 1928 by Sir Alexander Fleming (1898-1968). Australian pathologist
a port city on Lake Erie in northwestern Pennsylvania. county seat of Erie County, Pennsylvania, United States
a city of southeastern Mexico. capital and largest city of the Mexican state of Oaxaca
a promontory in northern Morocco opposite the Rock of Gibraltar; one of the Pillars of Hercules. mountain
United States novelist noted for children's books (1832-1888). American novelist
(Greek mythology) goddess of the earth and mother of Cronus and the Titans in ancient mythology. Greek primordial deity, goddess of Earth
king of Prussia from 1740 to 1786; brought Prussia military prestige by winning the War of the Austrian Succession and the Seven Years' War (1712-1786). king of Prussia
a harbor on Oahu to the west of Honolulu; location of a United States naval base that was attacked by the Japanese on 7 Dec 1941. harbor on the island of Oahu, Hawaii
the first national park in the United States; located in the border area between Wyoming and Montana and Idaho; spectacular wilderness; famous for Old Faithful geyser and for buffalo and bears. first national park in the world, located in the US states Wyoming, Montana and Idaho
United States comedienne remembered as the confused but imperturbable partner of her husband, George Burns (1906-1964). American actress and comedienne
the second largest of Jupiter's satellites. Galilean moon of Jupiter
the capital of Gabon. capital of Gabon
a small uninhabited Mediterranean islet claimed by both Morocco and Spain. island
capital of the state of New Mexico; located in north central New Mexico. county seat city in Santa Fe County, New Mexico, USA and New Mexico federated state capital city
palace and royal residence built for Catherine de Medicis in 1564 and burned down in 1871; all that remains today are the formal gardens. royal and imperial palace in Paris which stood on the right bank of the River Seine
leader in the women's suffrage movement in Montana; the first woman to serve in the United States House of Representatives (1880-1973). American congresswoman for Montana
United States diplomat and writer about the Old South (1853-1922). American diplomat
a river in Texas; flows southeast into the Gulf of Mexico. river in Texas
British writer (born in Hungary) (1865-1947). Hungarian-British author of "The Scarlet Pimpernel"
United States clarinetist and leader of a swing band (1910-2004). American clarinetist, composer, and bandleader
a resort town in east central Florida. capital city of Victoria, Australia
a volcano in the Andes in Chile. volcano (stratovolcano)
United States educator who introduced reforms that significantly altered the system of public education (1796-1859). American politician
Austrian diplomat who was Secretary General of the United Nations from 1972 to 1981; in 1986 he was elected president of Austria in spite of worldwide allegations that he had direct knowledge of Nazi atrocities during World War II (born in 1918). 4th Secretary-General of the United Nations, President of Austria
a large cave with basaltic pillars on Staffa island in Scotland. sea cave in Scotland
French composer of music for organ and a member of a family of distinguished organists (1668-1733). French Baroque composer, organist and harpsichordist
a government building with five sides that serves as the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense. headquarters of the United States Department of Defense
ancient Greek sculptor (circa 500-432 BC). Greek sculptor, painter and architect
United States inventor who incorporated Polaroid film into lenses and invented the one step photographic process (1909-1991). American scientist and inventor
mother and earth goddess in Gilgamish epic; identified with Sumerian Ki and Ninkhursag. sumerian goddess
the residence of the Catholic Pope in the Vatican City. official residence of the Pope in Vatican City
from 230 million to 63 million years ago. second era of the Phanerozoic Eon
Arabian philosopher born in Spain; wrote detailed commentaries on Aristotle that were admired by the Schoolmen (1126-1198). Medieval Arab scholar and philosopher
(Hinduism) a sacred epic Sanskrit poem of India dealing in many episodes with the struggle between two rival families. one of the two major Sanskrit epics of ancient India
Austrian architect and pioneer of modern architecture (1841-1918). austrian architect
the pope who sponsored the introduction of the modern calendar (1572-1585). Pope from 1572 to 1585
a division of Normandy. former administrative region of France
Hungarian composer of light operas (1870-1948). Austrian composer
(Greek mythology) the Muse of the dance and of choral song. muse of dance in Greek mythology
United States gynecologist and devout Catholic who conducted the first clinical trials of the oral contraceptive pill (1890-1984). American scientist
Egypt and Syria attacked Israel in October 1973 (on Yom Kippur); Israel counterattacked and drove the Syrians back and crossed the Suez Canal into Egypt. October 1973 war between Israel at one side and Egypt and Syria on the other side
a concentration camp for Jews created by the Nazis near Munich in southern Germany. Nazi concentration camp
French mathematician who founded number theory; contributed (with Pascal) to the theory of probability (1601-1665). French mathematician and lawyer
an amendment to the Constitution of the United States adopted in 1868; extends the guarantees of the Bill of Rights to the states as well as to the federal government. which grants citizenship to everyone born in the U.S. and subject to its jurisdiction and protects civil and political liberties
composer and piano virtuoso born in Russia (1873-1943). Russian composer, pianist, and conductor
British writer (born in Hungary) who wrote a novel exposing the Stalinist purges during the 1930s (1905-1983). Hungarian-British author and journalist
United States actor and film director (born in Austria) who was a leader in developing method acting in the United States (1901-1982). Ukrainian-born American actor, drama teacher, acting coach, theorist
thoroughbred that won the triple crown in 1977. Thoroughbred race horse; winner of US Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing in 1977
English poet (1887-1964). British poet
(New Testament) husband of Mary and (in Christian belief) the foster father of Jesus. unisex given name
United States fashion designer noted for understated fashions (born in 1942). American fashion designer
English architect who designed more than fifty London churches (1632-1723). English architect
United States musician and composer and conductor noted for his comic operas (1859-1924). American composer
an active volcano in northern Iran. city in Iran
a large subtropical swamp in southern Florida that is noted for its wildlife. natural region of tropical wetlands in Florida, United States
(Greek mythology) son of Helios; killed when trying to drive his father's chariot and came too close to earth. son of Helios from Greek mythology
the date of Allied victory over Japan, World War II. day on which Japan surrendered, effectively ending World War II
United States electrical engineer who pioneered mathematical communication theory (1916-2001). American mathematician and information theorist
an ancient region of northeastern Africa (southern Egypt and northern Sudan) on the Nile; much of Nubia is now under Lake Nasser. region along the Nile river, which is located in northern Sudan and southern Egypt
king of Macedon; conqueror of Greece and Egypt and Persia; founder of Alexandria (356-323 BC). king of Macedon
French explorer who explored the St. Lawrence river and laid claim to the region for France (1491-1557). French explorer
United States historian and political philosopher (born in Germany) (1906-1975). Jewish-American political theorist
a group of five large, interconnected lakes in central North America. lakes in North America
a New Testament book containing Saint Paul's second epistle to the Thessalonians. book of the Bible
state capital and largest city of Georgia; chief commercial center of the southeastern United States; was plundered and burned by Sherman's army during the American Civil War. city in Dekalb County and Fulton County, Georgia, USA, county seat city in Fulton County and Georgia federated state capital city
United States film actor who appeared in many films with Katharine Hepburn (1900-1967). American actor
German architect who migrated to Palestine in 1937 (1887-1953). Jewish German architect
United States architect who with his partner Thomas Hastings designed many important public buildings (1858-1911). American architecture firm
Mongolian emperor of China and grandson of Genghis Khan who completed his grandfather's conquest of China; he establish the Yuan dynasty and built a great capital on the site of modern Beijing where he received Marco Polo (1216-1294). founding emperor of the Yuan Dynasty, grandson of Genghis Khan
the larger of the two satellites of Mars. natural satellite of Mars
English scholastic philosopher and assumed author of Occam's Razor (1285-1349). English medieval Franciscan friar and scholastic philosopher and theologian
German chemist who studied steroids and cholesterol and discovered histamine (1876-1959). German chemist
a town on the westernmost of the Florida keys in the Gulf of Mexico. county seat city of Monroe County, Florida, United States; island in Florida Keys
airlift in 1948 that supplied food and fuel to citizens of west Berlin when the Russians closed off land access to Berlin. Blockade on Berlin imposed by the USSR from 1948 to 1949
the sixth sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about August 23 to September 22. zodiac constellation passing through the celestial equator
a large constellation in the equatorial region between Hercules and Scorpius. zodiac constellation straddling the celestial equator
a port in southwestern Scotland. town and former Royal Burgh situated on the west coast of Ayrshire in the Scotland
a Hebrew minor prophet of the late 6th century BC. Biblical prophet
after disputes over Texas lands that were settled by Mexicans the United States declared war on Mexico in 1846 and by treaty in 1848 took Texas and California and Arizona and New Mexico and Nevada and Utah and part of Colorado and paid Mexico $15,000,000. armed conflict between the United States of America and Mexico from 1846 to 1848
illegitimate son of Canute who seized the throne of England in 1037 (died in 1040). King of England
a fictional young girl who is saved from her stepmother and stepsisters by her fairy godmother and a handsome prince. European folk tale
Christian bishop of Caesarea in Palestine; a church historian and a leading early Christian exegete (circa 270-340). Greek church historian
French physicist who developed the first color photographic process (1845-1921). French physicist
German composer of operas and inventor of the musical drama in which drama and spectacle and music are fused (1813-1883). German composer, conductor
Dutch physician who opened the first birth control clinic in the world in Amsterdam (1854-1929). Dutch physician and feminist
son of Henry IV and King of England from 1413 to 1422; reopened the Hundred Years' War and defeated the French at Agincourt (1387-1422). King of England, born in Wales
United States artist whose work reflected social and political themes (1898-1969). American photographer and artist
third son of Charlemagne and king of France and Germany and Holy Roman Emperor (778-840). King of Aquitaine
the capital of the Cayman Islands. city situated on Grand Cayman island of the Cayman Islands
a landlocked federal republic in central Europe. federal republic in Central Europe
a port city and resort in Andalusia in southern Spain on the Mediterranean. municipality, capital of the Province of M뭼折뛞ga, in the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, Spain
a book in the Old Testament describing how Joshua led the Israelites into Canaan (the Promised Land) after the death of Moses. sixth book of the Bible
city in southwestern Colombia in a rich agricultural area. Capital of the Colombian department of Valle del Cauca
United States lexicographer (1758-1843). American lexicographer, textbook pioneer, English-language spelling reformer, writer, editor and author
a city in south central California at the southern end of the San Joaquin Valley. county seat of Kern County, California, United States
an amphibious evacuation in World War II (1940) when 330,000 Allied troops had to be evacuated from the beaches in northern France in a desperate retreat under enemy fire. evacuation of Allied soldiers from the beaches and harbour of Dunkirk, France, between 27 May and 4 June 1940
a city in north central India. district of Delhi and Indian capital city
United States folk singer and songwriter (1912-1967). American singer-songwriter and folk musician
the chief Babylonian god; his consort was Sarpanitu. Babylonian god
capital of Tuvalu. atoll and capital of Tuvalu
tough cynical detective (one of the early detective heroes in American fiction) created by Raymond Chandler. fictional character created by Raymond Chandler
United States economist (born in Canada) who served as ambassador to India (born in 1908). American economist and diplomat
United States historian (1888-1965). American historian
Sherpa mountaineer guide who with Sir Edmund Hillary was one of the first to attain the summit of Mount Everest (1914-1986). Nepalese Citizen Sherpa mountaineer
the 3rd largest of the Great Lakes; the largest freshwater lake entirely within the United States borders. one of the Great Lakes of North America
Persian prince who was defeated in battle by his brother Artaxerxes II (424-401 BC). Achaemenid king
United States striptease artist who became famous on Broadway in the 1930s (1914-1970). American burlesque performer, actress and author
United States dancer and choreographer who collaborated with Ruth Saint Denis (1891-1972). dancer
English poet (1612-1680). poet and satirist
a terrorist organization founded for Jewish defense; fights antisemitism and hopes to restore the biblical state of Israel. Israeli political party
the Babylonian goddess of healing and consort of Ninurta. mesopotaian deity
a city in northeastern Germany; site of the Potsdam Conference in the summer of 1945. capital city of the German state of Brandenburg
the countries of Asia. term for the Eastern world
one of the two main administrative districts of Egypt; consists of the Nile delta. northernmost region of Egypt
United States anatomist who identified four pituitary hormones and discovered vitamin E (1882-1971). American scientist
United States writer (1925-1964). American novelist, short story writer
a Valkyrie or a queen in the Nibelungenlied who loved the hero Siegfried; when he deceived her she had him killed and then committed suicide. Valkyrie in Norse mythology
United States psychiatrist (1892-1949). American psychiatrist & psychoanalyst
a county in southern England. county in England
capital of the state of Virginia located in the east central part of the state; was capital of the Confederacy during the American Civil War. capital city of Commonwealth of Virginia, United States
a town in south central North Carolina. city in Cumberland County, North Carolina, United States
United States painter (1870-1966). American painter and illustrator
an impoverished coal mining area in the Appalachian Mountains (from Pennsylvania to North Carolina). region of North America
a sound between Long Island and Connecticut. estuary on the east coast of the United States
a city in northeastern Indiana. county seat of Allen County, Indiana, United States
a city in north central Venezuela; cattle center. city in Venezuela
United States historian who stressed the importance of intellectual and social events for the course of history (1863-1936). American historian
a Serbian province in southern Serbia and Montenegro populated predominantly by Albanians. not fully recognised state in Southeast Europe
Danish ethnologist and Arctic explorer; led expeditions into the Arctic to find support for his theory that Eskimos and North American Indians originally migrated from Asia (1879-1933). Danish explorer and anthropologist
a naval battle in World War II; Allied land-based bombers destroyed a Japanese convoy in the Bismarck Sea in March 1943. battle of the Pacific theatre of World War II in which US and Australian aircraft attacked a Japanese convoy
the capital of South Korea and the largest city of Asia; located in northwestern South Korea. capital city of South Korea
United States composer noted for his innovative use of polytonality (1874-1954). American composer
United States singer and actress (born in 1917). American singer, actress, civil rights activist and dancer
English potter (1730-1795). English potter and founder of the Wedgwood company  (1730뼰1795)
a clandestine group of southeast Asian terrorists organized in 1993 and trained by al-Qaeda; supports militant Muslims in Indonesia and the Philippines and has cells in Singapore and Malaysia and Indonesia. Southeast Asian salafist organization
part of the North Pacific between Alaska and Siberia; connected to the Arctic Ocean by the Bering Strait. sea off the coast of Alaska
Canadian writer noted for his analyses of the mass media (1911-1980). Canadian educator, philosopher, and scholar-- a  professor of English literature, a literary critic, and a communications theorist
an island in southeastern Asia 100 miles off the coast of mainland China in the South China Sea. democratic republic in East Asia, with limited recognition
Mexican painter noted for his monumental murals (1883-1949). Mexican artist
a town in central Georgia; the origin of Vidalia onions. city in Toombs County and Montgomery County, Georgia, United States
the capital of the state of Maine. county seat in Kennebec County, Maine, USA and Maine federated state capital city
a war between the Allies (Australia, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Ethiopia, France, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Iran, Iraq, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Philippines, Poland, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States, USSR, Yugoslavia) and the Axis (Albania, Bulgaria, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Rumania, Slovakia, Thailand) from 1939 to 1945. 1939뼰1945 global war between the Allied and Axis powers
a volcanic island in the Windward Islands that was once a stronghold of the Carib Indians. country in the Caribbean
a tropical arm of the Pacific Ocean near southeastern Asia subject to frequent typhoons. marginal sea of the Pacific Ocean
a city in southern California to the east of Long Beach. county seat and city of Orange County, California, United States
a county in southern England on the English Channel. ceremonial county in England (use Q21694646 for administrative non-metropolitan county)
an industrial city of southern Poland. city in Silesian Voivodeship, Poland
capital and largest city of Serbia and Montenegro; situated on the Danube. Republic of Serbia capital
a revised version of the King James Version. 1901 English translation of the Bible
the reign of Charles II in England; 1660-1685. restoration of the English monarchy
a city in southern England to the northwest of London; site of Oxford University. city in Oxfordshire, England
Egyptian goddess of fertility; daughter of Geb; sister and wife of Osiris. Egyptian deity
Canadian economist best remembered for his humorous writings (1869-1944). writer and economist
a river that rises in western Arkansas and flows southeast into eastern Louisiana to become a tributary of the Red River. river in the United States of America
an island in southeastern New York; Brooklyn and Queens are on its western end. island in New York, United States of America
an independent country within the British Commonwealth; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1907; known for sheep and spectacular scenery. constitutional monarchy in Oceania
French painter of rural scenes (1814-1875). French painter
Hindu goddess of fortune and prosperity. Hindu goddess of wealth, love, prosperity
a town in southwest Georgia; processing center for peanuts and pecans. county seat of Dougherty County, Georgia, United States
Russian goldsmith noted for creating a series of jeweled and enameled Easter eggs for European royalty (1846-1920). Russian jeweller
a river that rises in west central Mississippi and flows southwest to empty into the Mississippi River above Vicksburg. river in the United States of America
a militant Palestinian terrorist group created in 1979 and committed to the creation of an Islamic state in Palestine and to the destruction of Israel; smaller and more exclusively militant that Hamas. Palestinian Islamist terror organization
Italian financier and statesman and friend of the papal court (1389-1464). First ruler of the Medici political dynasty
a strategically important strait linking the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman. strait between the Gulf of Oman and the Persian Gulf
the agreement signed in the Lateran Palace in 1929 by Italy and the Holy See which recognized the Vatican City as a sovereign and independent papal state. Treaty between the Holy See and Italy establishing Vatican City State
joint capital (with Riyadh) of Saudi Arabia; located in western Saudi Arabia; as the birthplace of Muhammad it is the holiest city of Islam. Saudi Arabian city and capital of the Makkah province
a state of north central United States bordering on Canada. state of the United States of America
Roman Emperor and nephew of Constantine; he restored paganism as the official religion of the Roman Empire and destroyed Christian temples but his decision was reversed after his death (331?-363). Roman Emperor, philosopher and writer
United States dancer and choreographer whose work was noted for its austerity and technical rigor (1893-1991). American dancer and choreographer
Norwegian anthropologist noted for his studies of cultural diffusion (1914-2002). Norwegian anthropologist and adventurer
the brightest star in Canis Minor. star in the constellation Canis Minor
the capital of the province of Alberta. capital city of province of Alberta, Canada
an ancient liturgical hymn. early Christian hymn of praise
a suspension bridge between Kyushu and Honshu. Suspension bridge that crosses the Strait Kanmon Strait and unites the islands of Honsh嚥 and Ky嚥귞짋h嚥 of Japan.
United States lawyer and politician who formulated a production code that prescribed the moral content of United States films from 1930 to 1966 (1879-1954). US Postmaster general
a terrorist organization in South Africa formed in 1996 to fight drug lords; evolved into a vigilante group with anti-western views closely allied with Qibla; is believed to have ties to Islamic extremists in the Middle East; is suspected of conducting bouts of urban terrorism. organization
a river that rises in northeastern New Mexico and flows eastward into Oklahoma where it becomes a tributary of the Arkansas River. tributary of the Canadian River
the capital and largest city of the Czech Republic in the western part of the country; a cultural and commercial center since the 14th century. capital city of the Czech Republic
Austrian physicist and philosopher who introduced the Mach number and who founded logical positivism (1838-1916). Austrian physicist and university educator
a battle (1590) in which the Huguenots under Henry IV defeated the Catholics under the duke of Mayenne. battle
a town in western Washington. city in Washington
Spanish film director (1900-1983). Spanish film director
(Greek mythology) the Muse of lyric and love poetry. muse of lyric and erotic poetry in Greek mythology
Danish philosopher who is generally considered. along with Nietzsche, to be a founder of existentialism (1813-1855). Danish philosopher and theologian, precursor of Existentialism
United States singer (1918-1990). American singer
a city in northeastern France in Lorraine. city in Meurthe-et-Moselle, France
city in the northern Dominican Republic. city in the Dominican Republic
United States comedian and film actor (1896-1996). American comedian, actor, and writer
a town in northwestern Kentucky on the Ohio River; a tobacco market. county seat of Daviess County, Kentucky, United States
a town in southeastern Virginia (south of Richmond); scene of heavy fighting during the American Civil War. federal city in Russia and the former capital
French film maker influenced by surrealism; early work explored the documentary use of film; noted for innovative techniques (born in 1930). French-Swiss film director, screenwriter and film critic
German biologist and philosopher; advocated Darwinism and formulated the theory of recapitulation; was an exponent of materialistic monism (1834-1919). German biologist, naturalist, philosopher, physician, and artist
a popular island resort off the northeastern tip of the Yucatan peninsula. city in Mexico
a mountain range in northwestern Israel near the Mediterranean coast. Mountain in Israel
a street in central London where newspaper offices are situated. street in the City of London, England
German composer of operas in a style that influenced Richard Wagner (1791-1864). German-born opera composer
United States author (born 1932). American novelist, poet, short story writer, art critic, and literary critic
36th President of the United States; was elected vice president and succeeded Kennedy when Kennedy was assassinated (1908-1973). American politician, 36th President of the United States
Spanish poet and dramatist considered one of the great Spanish writers (1600-1681). Spanish dramatist
an island of eastern Greece in the eastern Aegean Sea; in antiquity it was famous for lyric poetry. Greek island located in the northeastern Aegean Sea
Dutch astronomer who proved that the galaxy is rotating and proposed the existence of the Oort cloud (1900-1992). Dutch astronomer
United States sculptor (1904-1988). artist
thoroughbred that won the triple crown in 1943. Thoroughbred race horse; winner of U.S. Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing in 1943
the parts of North America and South America to the south of the United States where Romance languages are spoken. region of the Americas where Romance languages are primarily spoken
a river that rises in the Rocky Mountains in Colorado and flows southeast through Kansas and Oklahoma and through Arkansas to become a tributary of the Mississippi River. major tributary of the Mississippi River, United States
a town in south central Michigan. city located in the U.S. state of Michigan
capital and largest city and economic center of Peru; located in western Peru; was capital of the Spanish empire in the New World until the 19th century. capital of Peru
King of England and Ireland in 1936; his marriage to Wallis Warfield Simpson created a constitutional crisis leading to his abdication (1894-1972). king of the United Kingdom and its dominions in 1936
an island republic on Nauru Island; phosphate exports support the economy. republic in Oceania
Babylonian god of the sky; one of the supreme triad including Bel and Ea. Sumerian deity
a long archipelago of more than 500 islands in Micronesia to the east of the Philippines. archipelago
United States suffragist (1820-1905). American journalist
French painter best known for his satirical lithographs of bourgeois society (1808-1879). French printmaker, caricaturist, painter, and sculptor
German philosopher and mathematician who thought of the universe as consisting of independent monads and who devised a system of the calculus independent of Newton (1646-1716). German mathematician and philosopher
a national park in New Mexico featuring what is probably the world's largest cavern with spectacular underground formations. United States National Park in the Guadalupe Mountains in southeastern New Mexico
a river that rises in southwestern Minnesota and flows southwestward to the Missouri River in western Iowa. river in the United States of America
a port city in southwestern Croatia on the Adriatic; a popular tourist center. city in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Croatia
demonstration (1773) by citizens of Boston who (disguised as Indians) raided three British ships in Boston harbor and dumped hundreds of chests of tea into the harbor; organized as a protest against taxes on tea. political protest in Boston in the British colony of Massachusetts
United States filmmaker (born in Canada) noted for slapstick movies (1880-1960). Canadian-American actor, film director, film producer, screenwriter and cinematographer
the border marking the boundaries of the land that Israel won in its 1948 war of independence. demarcation line set out in the 1949 Armistice Agreements between Israel and tand Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon and Syria after the 1948 Arab뼰깺壤굎raeli War; de facto borders of Israel from 1949 until the Six-Day War in 1967
the part of Malaysia that is on the island of Borneo. part of Malaysia located on the island of Borneo
United States mathematician (born in France) (1906-1998). French mathematician
a canal connecting Cape Cod Bay with Buzzards Bay. artificial waterway in Massachusetts, USA, connecting Cape Cod Bay to Buzzards Bay
United States baseball player and manager (1873-1934). American baseball player, manager
an arm of the northwest Atlantic Ocean off the southeastern coast of Canada. estuary on the east coast of Canada
(Roman mythology) ancient Roman god; personification of the sun; counterpart of Greek Helios. solar deity in Ancient Roman religion
United States writer of science fiction (born 1920). American author and screenwriter
a town in southeastern Idaho on the Snake River. city in and the county seat of Bonneville County, Idaho, United States
German hero; leader at the battle of Teutoburger Wald in AD 9 (circa 18 BC - AD 19). Chieftain of the Germanic Cherusci
an international study of the entire human genetic material. research program for sequencing the human genome
a siege in which Federal troops under Sherman cut off the railroads supplying the city and then burned it; 1864. Battle of the American Civil War
French engineer who constructed the Eiffel Tower (1832-1923). French civil engineer and architect
English explorer who led an expedition in search of the Northwest Passage to the orient; served under Drake and helped defeat the Spanish Armada (1535-1594). English explorer
German mathematician (1823-1891). German mathematician who worked on number theory and algebra (1823뼰1891)
the capital and largest city of Turkmenistan. capital city of Turkmenistan
a republic in northwestern South America; became independent from Spain in 1822; the landscape is dominated by the Andes. country in South America
United States painter (born in the Netherlands) who was a leading American exponent of abstract expressionism (1904-1997). Dutch painter
a town in southwestern England on the River Avon; famous for its hot springs and Roman remains. city in Somerset, England, United Kingdom
the main character in a play and novel by J. M. Barrie; a boy who won't grow up. character created by J. M. Barrie
United States educational psychologist (1874-1949). American psychologist
United States author whose novels characterized the Jazz Age in the United States (1896-1940). novelist and screenwriter from the United States
a state in north central United States. state of the United States of America
United States general in the American Civil War who was defeated by Robert E. Lee at the Battle of Fredericksburg (1824-1881). soldier, railroad executive, inventor, industrialist, and politician from Rhode Island, United States
a battle in the Korean War (1950); United States forces landed at Inchon. battle
an ancient city in Asia Minor that was the site of the Trojan War. Homeric ancient city in northwest Asia Minor
(Roman mythology) messenger of Jupiter and god of commerce; counterpart of Greek Hermes. Ancient Roman mythological god of trade, merchants, and travel
Irish abbess; a patron saint of Ireland (453-523). Irish abbess and saint
(theology) God's act of bringing the universe into existence. creation myth of both Judaism and Christianity
a Sunni Muslim extremist group in Pakistan that collaborates with al-Qaeda; the armed wing of Sipah-e-Sahaba. Sunni jihadist organization in Pakistan and Afghanistan
(Apocrypha) the Assyrian general who was decapitated by the biblical heroine Judith. figure in the Book of Judith; invading general of Nebuchadnezzar, beheaded by Judith
a Hebrew minor prophet. prophet
King of England and Scotland and Ireland; he married the daughter of James II and was invited by opponents of James II to invade England; when James fled, William III and Mary II were declared joint monarchs (1650-1702). Prince of Orange, King of England, Scotland and Ireland
a peak in the Rocky Mountains in central Colorado (14,036 feet high). mountain in United States of America
a small faint constellation in the southern hemisphere near Musca and Triangulum Australe. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
English biologist and a leading exponent of Darwin's theory of evolution (1825-1895). English biologist and comparative anatomist
a port city of northeastern Brazil on the Atlantic. capital and largest city of the state of Pernambuco, Brazil
United States historian (1908-1999). preeminent American historian
son of Frederick William who in 1701 became the first king of Prussia (1657-1713). 1657 뼰 1713, Elector of Brandenburg and Duke of Prussia in personal union (Brandenburg-Prussia)
a villainous Jew in a novel by Charles Dickens. fictional human from Charles Dickens Oliver Twist
a mountain peak in the San Juan Mountains in southwestern Colorado (14,048 feet high). mountain in United States of America
formerly the largest Soviet Socialist Republic in the USSR occupying eastern Europe and northern Asia. republic in the USSR (1922뼰1991) and sovereign state (1917뼰1922 and 1990뼰1991, then it was renamed to Russia)
a suspension bridge across the East River in New York City; opened in 1883. bridge in New York City, crossing the East River
a port city in southeastern Wales. city in south east Wales
Italian sociologist and economist whose theories influenced the development of fascism in Italy (1848-1923). Italian economist and sociologist
United States architect who designed the first skyscraper in which a metal skeleton was used (1832-1907). American architect
United States operatic contralto (1861-1936). Austrian-American singer
Italian pope from 1523 to 1534 who broke with Henry VIII of England after Henry VIII divorced Catherine of Aragon and married Anne Boleyn (1478-1534). pope
innovative United States dancer and choreographer (born in 1941). American dancer and choreographer
a town in northern France on the Strait of Dover that serves as a ferry port to England; in 1347 it was captured by the English king Edward III after a long siege and remained in English hands until it was recaptured by the French king Henry II in 1558. commune in Pas-de-Calais, France
Israeli statesman who persuaded the United States to recognize the new state of Israel and became its first president (1874-1952). Zionist leader, 1st president of Israel
an Arab country on the peninsula of Qatar; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1971; the economy is dominated by oil. constitutional monarchy in western Asia
Venetian traveler who explored Asia in the 13th century and served Kublai Khan (1254-1324). Venetian explorer and merchant noted for travel to central and eastern Asia
English poet (1880-1958). English poet
a mountain in the Himalayas in northern India (25,660 feet high). mountain
United States educator who was president of the University of Chicago (1899-1977). philosopher and university president
a region whose eastern part is now Bangladesh and whose western part is included in India. historical and geographical region in the east region of the Indian subcontinent
the provincial capital of the Abruzzi region in central Italy. Italian city, capital of the Abruzzo region and of the Province of L'Aquila
(Roman mythology) a princess of Tyre who was the founder and queen of Carthage; Virgil tells of her suicide when she was abandoned by Aeneas. founder of Carthage
United States Army surgeon who suppressed yellow fever in Havana and in the Panama Canal Zone (1854-1920). 22nd Surgeon General of the United States Army
a desert area in southern Arizona. North American desert
(Greek mythology) a sea god son of Pontus and Gaea; lived in the depths of the sea with his wife Doris and their daughters the Nereids. Sea god of Greek mythology
a republic in northeastern Europe on the Baltic Sea. republic in Northern Europe
a city in northwestern Mexico near the California border. city in Baja California, Mexico
an arm of the Mediterranean Sea between western Greece and southern Italy. an elongated bay of the Mediterranean Sea, south of the Adriatic Sea, bounded by Southern Italy (Calabria, Sicily, Salento peninsula) to the west, southern Albania to the north, and the west coast of Greece to the east
a seaport on the Atlantic coast of Angola. town and municipality
United States heart surgeon who in 1966 implanted the first artificial heart in a human patient (born in 1908). American cardiac surgeon
United States biochemist (born in Hungary) who was the first to isolate vitamin C (1893-1986). Hungarian biochemist who won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1937
English composer (1902-1983). English composer
a strait connecting the Bering Sea to the Arctic Ocean. strait between Russia and Alaska, United States
English actor and comedian who appeared on television and in films (born in 1935). English actor, comedian, composer and musician
(Greek mythology) the god of marriage. Greek god of marriage ceremonies
a Massachusetts peninsula to the south of Boston extending into the Atlantic; a popular resort area. cape in the Northeastern United States
English electrical engineer who founded a company that introduced many innovative products (born in 1940). English entrepreneur and inventor
a river that rises in Maine and flows northeastward through New Brunswick to empty into the Bay of Fundy. river in New Brunswick and Quebec, Canada and Maine, USA
Jordan's port; located in southwestern Jordan on the Gulf of Aqaba. local development committee in Tubas Governorate
a small island republic on the Tuvalu islands; formerly part of the British colony of Gilbert and Ellice Islands until it withdrew in 1975 and became independent of the United Kingdom in 1978. country in Oceania
in Vedism, god of the night sky who with his thousand eyes watches over human conduct and judges good and evil and punishes evildoers; often considered king of the Hindu gods and frequently paired with Mitra as an upholder of the world. deity of waters, ocean in Hinduism
a desert in Namibia extending along the coast between the high plateau and the Atlantic Ocean. desert in south Africa
United States film actor noted for his swashbuckling roles (1883-1939). American actor, screenwriter, director, and producer
French philosopher who was a leading figure of the Enlightenment in France; principal editor of an encyclopedia that disseminated the scientific and philosophical knowledge of the time (1713-1784). French Enlightenment philosopher and encyclop?dist
United States poet (1899-1932). American writer
a river in central Brazil that flows generally northward (with many falls) to join the Tocantins River. river in the Tocantins River Basin in Brazil
battle in World War I (1914); heavy but indecisive fighting as the Allies and the Germans both tried to break through the lines of the others. First World War battle fought for the strategic town of Ypres
an industrial city and port in southwestern England near the mouth of the River Avon. city in South West England
United States novelist (born in 1931). novelist, editor, professor
the supernatural being conceived as the perfect and omnipotent and omniscient originator and ruler of the universe; the object of worship in monotheistic religions. divine entity, supreme being and principal object of faith
the largest city in Kazakhstan and the capital until 1998. former capital of Kazakhstan and the nation's largest city
a state in the southeastern United States on the Gulf of Mexico; one of the Confederate states during the American Civil War. state of the United States of America
(Roman mythology) god of fire and metal working; counterpart of Greek Hephaestus. god of both beneficial and hindering fire
a major Egyptian god; shaper of the world; father of gods and men; worshipped especially at Memphis. Egyptian deity
an African river that flows northwest into Lake Chad. river
the battle in which Attila the Hun was defeated by the Romans and Visigoths in 451. battle
the mainland part of the province of Newfoundland and Labrador in the eastern part of the large Labrador-Ungava Peninsula in northeastern Canada. region of Canada
Roman grammarian whose textbook on Latin grammar was used throughout the Middle Ages (fourth century). Roman grammarian
Celtic sky god; a magician; giver of arts and civilization. magician, hero and trickster from Welsh mythology
a strategically located monarchy on the southern and eastern coasts of the Arabian Peninsula; the economy is dominated by oil. country in Western Asia
a Hebrew prophet in the Old Testament who opposed the worship of idols; he was persecuted for rebuking Ahab and Jezebel (king and queen of Israel); he was taken up to heaven in a chariot of fire (circa 9th century BC). Biblical prophet
god of agriculture and the earth; national god of Philistines. water deity
Italian statesman and scholar who supported many artists and humanists including Michelangelo and Leonardo and Botticelli (1449-1492). Italian statesman and de facto ruler of the Florentine Republic
a Welsh buccaneer who raided Spanish colonies in the West Indies for the English (1635-1688). Welsh pirate
the final campaign of the American Civil War (1864-65); Union forces under Grant besieged and finally defeated Confederate forces under Lee. siege
the provincial capital of New Brunswick. capital city of province of New Brunswick, Canada
abolitionist who was hanged after leading an unsuccessful raid at Harper's Ferry, Virginia (1800-1859). American abolitionist
(Greek mythology) the son of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra; his sister Electra persuaded him to avenge Agamemnon's death by killing Clytemnestra and Aegisthus. figure from Greek mythology
United States writer and poet (1932-1963). American poet, novelist and short story writer
a narrow republic surrounded by Senegal in West Africa. country in West Africa
an extremist militant group in Pakistan occupied Kashmir that seeks an Islamic government and that has had close links and fought with the Taliban in Afghanistan. Islamist fundamentalist organization in Pakistan and Bangladesh
English geneticist who succeeded in cloning a sheep from a cell from an adult ewe (born in 1944). embryologist
Japanese counterpart of Chinese Kuan Yin. East Asian deity associated with compassion
an extremist Palestinian Sunni group active in Lebanon in the early 1990s that advocates Salafism; responsible for murders and bombings; seeks to overthrow the Lebanese government and control Palestinian refugee camps; funded by al-Qaeda. Sunni fundamentalist organization
thoroughbred that won the triple crown in 1978. American Thoroughbred racehorse; winner of US Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing in 1978
the major mountain range of Bulgaria and the Balkan Peninsula. mountain range in the eastern part of the Balkan Peninsula
an African country to the north of Ethiopia on the Red Sea; achieved independence from Ethiopia in 1993. country in the Horn of Africa
French statesman (1560-1641). French duke
the queen of Castile whose marriage to Ferdinand of Aragon in 1469 marked the beginning of the modern state of Spain; they instituted the Spanish Inquisition in 1478 and sponsored the voyages of Christopher Columbus in 1492 (1451-1504). queen of the Crown of Castile
Napoleon defeated the Russians in 1812 in a pitched battle at a village in western Russia west of Moscow, but irreparably weakened his army. battle of the French invasion of Russia during the Napoleonic Wars
French composer of works that combine jazz and polytonality and Brazilian music (1892-1974). French composer and teacher
influential German philosopher remembered for his concept of the superman and for his rejection of Christian values; considered, along with Kierkegaard, to be a founder of existentialism (1844-1900). German philosopher, poet, composer, cultural critic, and classical philologist
a river in Siberia that flows northwest to become a tributary of the Yenisei River. river in Russia
the capital and largest city of the Philippines; located on southern Luzon. capital city of the Philippines
a group of islands in northeastern West Indies (east of Puerto Rico) discovered by Christopher Columbus in 1493; owned by United States and Britain. island group of the Leeward Islands
a major waterfall in southern Africa; has more than one leap. waterfall
two wars (1912-1913) that were fought over the last of the European territories of the Ottoman Empire and that left the area around Constantinople (now Istanbul) as the only Ottoman territory in Europe. war
largest city of Wisconsin; located in southeastern Wisconsin on the western shore of Lake Michigan; a flourishing agricultural center known for its breweries. city in and county seat of Milwaukee County, Wisconsin, United States
a republic in southwestern Europe on the Iberian Peninsula; Portuguese explorers and colonists in the 15th and 16th centuries created a vast overseas empire (including Brazil). republic in Southwestern Europe
French physicist famous for his discoveries in the field of electricity and magnetism; formulated Coulomb's Law (1736-1806). French physicist
English poet who wrote an allegorical romance celebrating Elizabeth I in the Spenserian stanza (1552-1599). English poet
United States inventor (born in Hungary) who made the first TV broadcast in 1940 and invented the long-playing record in 1948 and pioneered videocassette recording (1906-1977). American inventor
British art critic (1819-1900). English writer and art critic
French symbolist poet noted for his free verse (1842-1898). French Symbolist poet
a large amusement park established in 1971 to the southwest of Orlando. theme park, resort and entertainment complex in Florida
Scottish physicist who invented the cloud chamber (1869-1959). Scottish physicist and meteorologist
the capital and largest city of Cuba; located in western Cuba; one of the oldest cities in the Americas. capital city and commercial centre of Cuba
an important god of later Hinduism; the sun god or the sun itself worshipped as the source of warmth and light. Sun, Hindu solar deity
a river of central New York that flows southeastward to the Hudson River. river in New York state, United States
the region of Paris on the north bank of the Seine. part of Paris on the north bank of the Seine
a faint constellation in the southern hemisphere near Sagittarius and Capricornus. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
12th President of the United States; died in office (1784-1850). American general and politician, 12th President of the United States (in office from 1849 to 1850)
a city on the Amur River on the border of China and the capital of Khabarovsk. city in Russia, administrative center of the Khabarovsk Krai
(Greek mythology) goddess of the Moon in ancient mythology; identified with Roman Luna. Greek goddess of the Moon
an island in Antigua and Barbuda. island in Antigua and Barbuda
a midwestern state in central United States; a border state during the American Civil War, Missouri was admitted to the Confederacy without actually seceding from the Union. state of the United States of America
the capital and largest city of Jordan. capital of Jordan
the largest city in Pakistan; located in southeastern Pakistan; an industrial center and seaport on the Arabian Sea; former capital of Pakistan. Capital of the Sindh Province
an English pirate who operated in the Caribbean and off the Atlantic coast of North America (died in 1718). English pirate
a general war in Europe (1701-1714) that broke out when Louis XIV installed his grandson on the throne of Spain; England and Holland hoped to limit Louis' power. major European conflict (1700뼰1714) after the death of Charles II
king of France whose military victories consolidated his reign (1081-1137). King of France
(Greek mythology) the goddess of health; daughter of Aesculapius and sister of Panacea. goddess in Greek mythology, personification of health
an ancient kingdom of southern Palestine with Jerusalem as its center. figure in the Hebrew Bible
(Old Testament) the first king of the Israelites who defended Israel against many enemies (especially the Philistines). first king of the united Kingdom of Israel
a city on the Zhu Jiang delta in southern China; the capital of Guangdong province and a major deep-water port. capital city of Guangdong Province, China
29th President of the United States; two of his appointees were involved in the Teapot Dome scandal (1865-1823). American politician, 29th President of the United States (in office from 1921 to 1923)
Spanish explorer who discovered Yucatan (1475-1526). conquistador, explorer
one of the two main administrative districts of Egypt; extends south from Cairo to Sudan. strip of land on the Nile valley between Nubia and Lower Egypt
great nature goddess of ancient Phrygia in Asia Minor; counterpart of Greek Rhea and Roman Ops. Anatolian mother goddess
United States prizefighter who lost his world heavyweight championship to Cassius Clay in 1964 (1932-1970). American boxer
the 3rd largest ocean; bounded by Africa on the west, Asia on the north, Australia on the east and merging with the Antarctic Ocean to the south. ocean between Africa, Asia, Oceania and Antartica
a city in central Mexico. largest city in Guanajuato, Mexico
(Greek mythology) the daughter of King Oedipus who disobeyed her father and was condemned to death. daughter of Oedipus and Jocasta in Greek mythology
a star cluster in the constellation Taurus. open cluster in the constellation of Taurus
British stateswoman; first woman to serve as Prime Minister (born in 1925). former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom
(Hinduism) an ancient Sanskrit text giving rules for sensuous and sensual pleasure and love and marriage in accordance with Hindu law. ancient Hindu text on erotic love
a low-lying region in central France. region in France
a city in southern California. county seat of Riverside County, California, United States
English painter (1887-1976). British visual artist
Italian painter of the Venetian school (1528-1588). Italian painter of the Renaissance
(Greek mythology) a youth beloved of Hero who drowned in a storm in the Hellespont on one of his nightly visits to see her. mythical character
a canal for small oceangoing ships to enter Lake Vanern in Sweden. waterway in southern Sweden
British writer of short stories (1870-1916). British writer
a sultanate in northwestern Borneo; became independent of Great Britain in 1984. country in Asia
English physicist who discovered the pion (the first known meson) which is a subatomic particle involved in holding the nucleus together (1903-1969). British physicist
Austrian physicist who contributed to the kinetic theory of gases (1844-1906). Austrian physicist
the state capital of Ohio; located in the center of the state; site of Ohio State University. county seat in Franklin County, Ohio, USA and Ohio federated state capital city
French mime famous for his sad-faced clown (born in 1923). French mime and actor
a city in western Lithuania on the Baltic Sea; formerly an important trading town of the Hanseatic League. city in Lithuania
a region in the central and eastern part of the Czech Republic; it lies to the east of Bohemia and to the west of the Carpathians. Historical land in the Czech Republic
empress of Russia who succeeded her husband Peter the Great (1684-1727). Empress of Russia
Hungarian playwright (1878-1952). Hungarian-born dramatist and novelist
an arm of the South China Sea between Indochina and the Malay Peninsula. shallow inlet in the western part of the South China and Eastern Archipelagic Seas
a national park in Tennessee and North Carolina that includes the highest mountain in the eastern United States. U.S. national park in Tennessee and North Carolina
United States conductor (born in Britain) (1882-1977). British conductor
popular United States conductor (1894-1979). American conductor
god of fire and light; corresponds to Babylonian Girru. sumerian deity
an imaginary line on the surface of the earth following (approximately) the 180th meridian. imaginary line that demarcates the change of one calendar day to the next
United States athlete who won gold medals at the Olympics for his skill in sprinting and jumping (born in 1961). US track & field athlete
Dutch naturalist and microscopist who proposed a classification of insects and who was among the first to recognize cells in animals and was the first to see red blood cells (1637-1680). Dutch entomologist and beekeeper
Indian general and nawab of Bengal who opposed the colonization of India by England; he captured Calcutta in 1756 and many of his prisoners suffocated in a crowded room that became known as the Black Hole of Calcutta; he was defeated at the battle of Plassey by a group of Indian nobles in alliance with Robert Clive (1728-1757). Nawab of Bengal
discontent with British administration in India led to numerous mutinies in 1857 and 1858; the revolt was put down after several battles and sieges (notably the siege at Lucknow). First War for Indian independence by the people and states of India against East India Company and the British Crown
a volcanic island in the Fijis. second largest island in Fiji
a three-minute address by Abraham Lincoln during the American Civil War at the dedication of a national cemetery on the site of the Battle of Gettysburg (November 19, 1863). speech by U.S. President Abraham Lincoln
one of a race of brutes resembling men but subject to the Houyhnhnms in a novel by Jonathan Swift. fictional race from Gulliver's Travels
United States playwright (1911-1983). American playwright
a geographical region of historical importance; a former duchy in what is now southwestern France, western Switzerland, and northwestern Italy. historical region of Europe
the Anglican service book of the Church of England; has had several revisions since the Reformation and is widely admired for the dignity and beauty of its language. Prayer book used in most Anglican churches
a national park in Washington having mountain terrain featuring glaciers and alpine lakes and streams and swamps. national park of the United States
an industrial city of eastern Poland. a city in southeastern Poland
United States writer whose best-known novel was based on his experiences as an attendant in a mental hospital (1935-2001). American novelist
United States film actor; son of Douglas Elton Fairbanks, (1909-2000). American actor and United States naval officer
port city in western Albania on the Adriatic. city in Albania
United States literary critic (1905-1975). American academic
Greek philosopher who believed that the world is a random combination of atoms and that pleasure is the highest good (341-270 BC). ancient Greek philosopher
Scottish historian who wrote about the French Revolution (1795-1881). Scottish philosopher, satirical writer, essayist, historian and teacher
a national park in Utah having rock formations and ancient cliff dwellings; canyons of the Green River and the Colorado River. U.S. National Park located in southeastern Utah near the town of Moab
a hilly county in southwestern England. historic country and ceremonial county in England
a vast arid plain of southern Australia stretching inland from the Great Australian Bight; has sparse vegetation and no surface water and is almost uninhabited; the site of a major rocket research center. geographical feature in Western Australia and South Australia
a river in the southeastern United States that flows northward from North Carolina to West Virginia where it empties into the Kanawha River. tributary of the Kanawha River
United States psychologist who studied the intelligence of primates (1876-1956). American psychologist
United States anarchist (born in Russia) who opposed conscription; was deported to the Soviet Union in 1919 (1869-1940). anarchist known for her political activism, writing, and speeches
a region on the Baltic that is divided between northern Estonia and southern Latvia. historic region along the eastern shores of the Baltic Sea
Christian martyr and patron saint of travellers (3rd century). saint in the Catholic and Orthodox church
a port city on the Gulf of Finland that is the capital and largest city of Estonia. capital of Estonia
Scottish philosopher who expounded Bentham's utilitarianism; father of John Stuart Mill (1773-1836). Scottish historian, economist, political theorist and philosopher
a port on the Atlantic and the largest city of Morocco. City in Morocco
a port city in southern Ireland. city in Ireland
a parliamentary democracy on the island of Barbados; former British colony; a popular resort area. country in the Caribbean
United States architect (born in England) (1802-1878). English architect
German bacteriologist who described a disease now known as Reiter's syndrome and who identified the spirochete that causes syphilis in humans (1881-1969). German physician
prolific Spanish playwright (1562-1635). Spanish playwright and poet
United States composer who was the first creator of ragtime to write down his compositions (1868-1917). American composer, musician, and pianist
a depression in the floor of the Pacific Ocean off the coast of Chile. oceanic trench
English rock star; lead guitarist of the Beatles (1943-2001). British musician and lead guitarist of the Beatles
son of Frederick I who became king of Prussia in 1713; reformed and strengthened the Prussian army (1688-1740). King of Prussia
United States industrialist who manufactured plows suitable for working the prairie soil (1804-1886). American businessman
a small constellation in the northern hemisphere near Cygnus and Draco; contains the star Vega. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
United States feminist and suffragist (1793-1880). American suffragist
English botanical writer and publisher (1746-1799). British scientist
French author and dramatist who is regarded as the father of modern French literature (1869-1951). French novelist and essayist
a fortified Moorish palace built near Granada by Muslim kings in the Middle Ages. palace and fortress complex in Granada, Andalusia, Spain
German conductor and composer of romantic operas (1786-1826). German composer
(Buddhism) a female Bodhisattva; often called goddess of mercy and considered an aspect of the Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara; identified with Japanese Kwannon. East Asian deity associated with compassion
a town in northeastern Oklahoma. city in Oklahoma
United States novelist and author of the Tarzan stories (1875-1950). American writer
United States astronomer who discovered Phobos and Deimos (the two satellites of Mars) (1829-1907). American astronomer
a national park in Florida having underwater coral reefs and marine life. national park of the United States
a small quadrilateral constellation in the southern hemisphere near Virgo. constellation in the Southern Celestial Hemisphere
French mathematician and philosopher (1743-1794). French philosopher, mathematician, and political scientist
German chemist (1853-1932). Baltic German chemist
a constellation in the northern hemisphere between Pegasus and Draco in the Milky Way; contains a black hole. constellation
notable English cricketer (1882-1963). English cricketer
a ship canal in northeastern Egypt linking the Red Sea with the Mediterranean Sea. canal in Egypt between the Mediterranean Sea and the Red Sea
a ship of the British navy; in 1789 part of the crew mutinied against their commander William Bligh and set him afloat in an open boat. Royal Navy vessel best known for the Mutiny on the Bounty
a Muslim republic in southern Asia bordered by India to the north and west and east and the Bay of Bengal to the south; formerly part of India and then part of Pakistan; it achieved independence in 1971. Sovereign country in South Asia
the region of Africa to the south of the Sahara Desert. area of the continent of Africa that lies south of the Sahara Desert
a large firth on the east coast of Scotland and the estuary of the Forth River; location of Edinburgh. estuary or firth of Scotland's River Forth
United States sculptor (born in Sweden); a leader of the pop art movement who was noted for giant sculptures of common objects (born in 1929). American artist
capital and largest city of Slovakia. capital city of Slovakia
United States microbiologist (born in Poland) who developed the Sabin vaccine that is taken orally against poliomyelitis (born 1906). Polish-American physician and epidemiologist
American Revolutionary leader and pamphleteer (born in England) who supported the American colonist's fight for independence and supported the French Revolution (1737-1809). English and American political activist
a landlocked country in central Africa; formerly under French control; became independent in 1960. country in Africa
ancient Greek historian remembered for his history of the Peloponnesian War (460-395 BC). Greek historian and Athenian general
Norwegian diplomat who was the first Secretary General of the United Nations (1896-1968). 1st Secretary-General of the United Nations
Soviet geneticist whose adherence to Lamarck's theory of evolution was favored by Stalin (1898-1976). Russian biologist
French revolutionary who was prominent in the early days of the French Revolution (1749-1791). French writer, orator and statesman
English author whose work used such techniques as stream of consciousness and the interior monologue; prominent member of the Bloomsbury Group (1882-1941). English writer
a national park in Utah having multicolored rock erosions. national park in Garfield and Kane counties in Utah, United States
English lexicographer who wrote a well-known book on English usage (1858-1933). lexicographer, linguist
king of France from 1774 to 1792; his failure to grant reforms led to the French Revolution; he and his queen (Marie Antoinette) were guillotined (1754-1793). King of France and Navarre
a British psychologist (born in Germany) noted for his theories of intelligence and personality and for his strong criticism of Freudian psychoanalysis. British psychologist
United States writer of humorous stylized stories about Broadway and the New York underground (1884-1946). American writer
United States labor leader who was the first president of the AFL-CIO (1894-1980). American labor leader
German philosopher whose three stage process of dialectical reasoning was adopted by Karl Marx (1770-1831). German philosopher
(Greek mythology) the supreme god until Zeus dethroned him; son of Uranus and Gaea in ancient Greek mythology; identified with Roman Saturn. ruler of the Titans in Greek mythology, defeated by the gods; father of Olympic gods and has control over time
United States pragmatic philosopher and psychologist (1842-1910). American philosopher, psychologist, and pragmatist
a town in southern Texas on the Rio Grande. city in Hidalgo County, Texas, United States
French explorer (with Jacques Marquette) of the upper Mississippi River valley (1645-1700). Canadian explorer
largest city in Nevada; located in southeastern Nevada; originally settled by Mormons but is now famous for entertainment and gambling and general excess. city in and county seat of Clark County, Nevada, United States
US forces captured the island from the Japanese in July 1944; it was an important air base until the end of World War II. largest island of the Northern Mariana Islands, United States of America
United States writer whose novels describe the lives of African-Americans (born in 1931). American writer
a division of the United Kingdom located on the northern part of the island of Ireland. region in north-west Europe, part of the United Kingdom
French racing cyclist who won the Tour de France five times (born in 1954). French cyclist
German biochemist who pioneered the use of chemical techniques in biological investigations; noted for studies of cellular respiration (1883-1970). German physiologist, medical doctor and Nobel laureate
(Greek mythology) a mythical hero of Corinth who performed miracles on the winged horse Pegasus (especially killing the monster Chimera). mythical character
a national park in Florida containing an immense subtropical wilderness with mangrove swamps and rare birds and wild animals. United States National Park in the US state of Florida
a city in the northern panhandle of Texas. city in Texas, USA
an island in the Gulf of Saint Lawrence; the smallest province of Canada. province of Canada
United States poet noted for irony and wit (1887-1872). American poet and writer
a province in western Canada. province of Canada
a port city in western Kenya on the northeastern shore of Lake Victoria; fishing and trading center. City in Kenya
United States physicist who isolated the electron and measured its charge (1868-1953). American physicist
United States parliamentary authority and author (in 1876) of Robert's Rules of Order (1837-1923). United States Army general and Chief of Engineers
Pharaoh of Egypt around 1358 BC; his tomb was discovered almost intact by Howard Carter in 1922. 14th century BCE (18th dynasty) Egyptian pharaoh
a dispute over control of the waterway between Iraq and Iran broke out into open fighting in 1980 and continued until 1988, when they accepted a UN cease-fire resolution. 1980뼰1988 war between Iran and Iraq
a siege and massacre at a mission in San Antonio in 1836; Mexican forces under Santa Anna besieged and massacred American rebels who were fighting to make Texas independent of Mexico. Major battle of the Texas Revolution
Babylonian god of wisdom and agriculture and patron of scribes and schools. ancient Mesopotamian patron god of literacy, the rational arts, scribes and wisdom
Scottish theologian who founded Presbyterianism in Scotland and wrote a history of the Reformation in Scotland (1514-1572). Scottish clergyman, writer and historian
the north central region of the United States (sometimes called the heartland or the breadbasket of America). one of the four U.S. geographic regions
a town on the Hudson River in New York. city in and the county seat of Ulster County, New York, United States
a national park in Minnesota having ancient rock outcroppings and evergreen forests. United States National Park near International Falls, Minnesota
Yugoslav statesman who led the resistance to German occupation during World War II and established a communist state after the war (1892-1980). Yugoslav revolutionary and statesman
a mainly residential district of Manhattan; `the Village' became a home for many writers and artists in the 20th century. neighborhood in Manhattan
a country in northwestern Africa with a provisional military government; achieved independence from France in 1960; largely western Sahara Desert. Islamic Republic in Africa
Celtic goddess of fire and fertility and agriculture and household arts and wisdom; later associated with Saint Bridget. water deity
a river that rises in northern Colombia and flows generally eastward to the Orinoco in central Venezuela. river
the third New Testament epistle traditionally attributed to Saint John the Apostle. book of the Bible
an ancient Greek dramatist remembered for his comedies (448-380 BC). Athenian playwright of Old Comedy
ancient Greek sculptor (circa 370-330 BC). Attic sculptor
state in northeastern India. Indian state
American patriot who rode with Paul Revere to warn that the British were advancing on Lexington and Concord (1745-1799). American militiaman
an industrial city in southern Poland. City with powiat rights of Poland
Hindu god of bravery. Hindu deity, warrior-philosopher in Shaivism
Japanese army officer who initiated the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and who assumed dictatorial control of Japan during World War II; he was subsequently tried and executed as a war criminal (1884-1948). former Prime Minister of Japan and\xa0Minister of War executed in 1948
an ancient country in central Asia Minor. Roman province
German mathematician (born in Russia) who suggested the concept of four-dimensional space-time (1864-1909). German mathematician and physicist
leader of the American Revolution and president of the Continental Congress (1724-1792). American planter and congressman
the first sign of the zodiac which the sun enters at the vernal equinox; the sun is in this sign from about March 21 to April 19. zodiac constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
a battle in northern France in which English longbowmen under Henry V decisively defeated a much larger French army in 1415. English victory in the Hundred Years' War
an Asian river; a tributary of the Euphrates River. river which flows from Turkey through Iraq and Syria
a depression in the floor of the Pacific Ocean to the northeast of Japan that reaches depths of 30,000 feet. geographical object
a desert in Turkmenistan to the south of the Aral Sea. desert
a port city in northeastern Tanzania on the Indian Ocean. city in Tanzania
a terrorist organization whose goal is to take over Japan and then the world; based on a religion founded in 1987 that combines elements of Buddhism with Christianity. Japanese cult and terrorist organization
an Old Testament book telling of a beautiful Jewess who became queen of Persia and saved her people from massacre. book
prolific English writer of detective stories (1890-1976). English mystery and detective writer
English philosopher and mathematician who collaborated with Bertrand Russell (1861-1947). English mathematician and philosopher
a city in southern West Virginia. city in West Virginia
United States publisher (born in Australia in 1931). Australian-born American media mogul
an Asian river; flows through a large delta in southern Vietnam into the South China Sea. river in Southeast Asia
(Greek mythology) the Titaness who was goddess of memory; mother of the Muses. personification of memory in Greek mythology
a university in Paris; intellectual center of France. Former french university existing from 1971 to 2018
Jewish heroine in one of the books of the Apocrypha; she saved her people by decapitating the Assyrian general Holofernes. book in the Septuagint, regarded as canonical in Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy, but not in Judaism or some Christian traditions; narrates the story of Judith, a widow, who assassinates an enemy general, Holofernes
Soviet poet; leader of Russian futurism (1893-1930). Russian and Soviet poet, playwright, artist and stage and film actor
English portrait painter remembered for the series of portraits of the leaders of the alliance against Napoleon (1769-1830). English portrait painter and the second president of the Royal Academy
a city in western Germany near the Dutch and Belgian borders; formerly it was Charlemagne's northern capital. city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany
an industrial city of northeastern Pennsylvania. county seat city in Lackawanna County, Pennsylvania, USA
a bay of the western Pacific in southern Honshu. bay in Japan
a popular vacation spot in the Canadian Rockies. national park in Alberta, Canada
(Greek mythology) king of Thebes who was unwittingly killed by his son Oedipus. mythological king of Thebes
an ancient country in southwestern Asia to the east of the Tigris River (in what is modern Iran); was known for its warlike people. Biblical character, son of Shem
(Greek mythology) a mountain in central Greece where (according to Greek mythology) the Muses lived; known as the mythological home of music and poetry. mountain in Greece
a port city on the Parana River in eastern central Argentina. city in Santa Fe province, Argentina
Spanish philosopher considered the greatest Jewish scholar of the Middle Ages who codified Jewish law in the Talmud (1135-1204). rabbi, physician, philosopher
United States educator who worked to improve race relations and educational opportunities for Black Americans (1875-1955). American educator and civil rights leader
United States railroad tycoon (1838-1916). United States railroad promoter and financier
a New Testament book traditionally included among the epistle of Saint Paul but now generally considered not to have been written by him. book of the Bible
a Pacific island to the north of Australia; the 2nd largest island in the world; the western part is governed by Indonesia and the eastern part is Papua New Guinea. island in the Pacific Ocean
a city in Tamil Nadu on the Bay of Bengal; formerly Madras. capital city of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu
German bacteriologist who developed a diagnostic test for syphilis (1866-1925). German bacteriologist
all the islands that lie to the north of mainland Canada and the Arctic Circle. Canadian archipelago
capital and largest city of Hungary; located on the Danube River in north-central Hungary. capital city of Hungary
the northern tip of Cape York Peninsula at the Torres Strait; the northernmost point of the Australian mainland. peninsula in Far North Queensland, Australia
the capital of Kentucky; located in northern Kentucky. county seat city in Franklin County, Kentucky, USA and Kentucky federated state capital city
an Old Testament book telling Habakkuk's prophecies. book of the Bible
Welsh chronicler who wrote an account of the kings of Britain which is now believed to contain little historical fact but it is a source of the Arthurian legend (circa 1100-1154). British cleric and historiographer
English poet who wrote hymns and poetry about nature (1731-1800). (1731뼰1800) English poet and hymnodist
French Post-impressionist painter who worked in the South Pacific (1848-1903). French artist
the provincial capital of the Yukon Territory. capital of Yukon
an English economist who argued that increases in population would outgrow increases in the means of subsistence (1766-1834). British political economist
the prayer that Christ gave his disciples in the Sermon on the Mount (Matthew 6:9-13). central prayer in Christianity
a book in the Old Testament containing the oracles of the prophet Jeremiah. book of the Bible
a large zodiacal constellation between Libra and Sagittarius. zodiac constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
a national park in Alaska having mountains and whale watching and ancient Indian copper mines. United States national park in Alaska
United States frontier missionary who established a post in Oregon where Christianity and schooling and medicine were available to Native Americans (1802-1847). American physician and Oregon missionary
English sociologist and economist and a central member of the Fabian Society (1859-1947). British Baron and politician
a star in Leo approximately 43 light years from Earth. star in the zodiac constellation of Leo
United States financier who gained control of the Erie Canal and who caused a financial panic in 1869 when he attempted to corner the gold market (1836-1892). American businessman
prolific English writer best known for his science-fiction novels; he also wrote on contemporary social problems and wrote popular accounts of history and science (1866-1946). English writer
American Revolutionary leader who as governor of Connecticut provided supplies for the Continental Army (1710-1785). Revolutionary-era Governor of the Colony and State of Connecticut
Greek astronomer and mathematician who discovered the precession of the equinoxes and made the first known star chart and is said to have invented trigonometry (second century BC). ancient Greek scholar
(Norse mythology) god of light and peace and noted for his beauty and sweet nature; son of Odin and Frigg and husband of Nanna; killed by Hoth. Norse deity
United States film maker (1896-1973). American film director
a state in southern United States on the Gulf of Mexico; one of the Confederate states during the American Civil War. state of the United States of America
an ancient city of Sumer located on a former channel of the Euphrates River. archaeological site in Iraq
French philosopher and writer born in Switzerland; believed that the natural goodness of man was warped by society; ideas influenced the French Revolution (1712-1778). Genevan philosopher, writer, and composer
a ship canal 40 miles long across the Isthmus of Panama built by the United States (1904-1914). large canal in Panama
an Old Testament book consisting of Isaiah's prophecies. book of the Bible
a bay of the North Atlantic between New Brunswick and Nova Scotia; noted for rapid tides as great as 70 feet. bay on the east coast of North America
a river in northwestern Florida formed by the confluence of the Chattahoochee River and the Flint River at the Florida border. county seat of Franklin County, Florida, United States
the younger of the two Grimm brothers remembered best for their fairy stories (1786-1859). German author
from 405 million to 345 million years ago; preponderance of fishes and appearance of amphibians and ammonites. fourth period of the Paleozoic Era
a republic on the Isthmus of Panama; achieved independence from Colombia in 1903. republic in Central America
from 544 million to about 500 million years ago; marine invertebrates. first period of the Paleozoic Era
a resort and fishing town on the Gulf of Mexico in northwest Florida. county seat of Bay County, Florida, United States
a city in northern Alabama; center for space research. county seat of Madison County, Alabama, United States
youngest son of Henry II; King of England from 1199 to 1216; succeeded to the throne on the death of his brother Richard I; lost his French possessions; in 1215 John was compelled by the barons to sign the Magna Carta (1167-1216). King of England from 6 April 1199 until his death in 1216
a cantilever bridge in Quebec. Saint Lawrence River crossing bridge, between Quebec City and Levis, Quebec
an Apocryphal book consisting of a compilation from I Chronicles and II Chronicles and Ezra and Nehemiah. ancient Greek version of the biblical Book of Ezra as preserved in the Septuagint
a port city in northern Vietnam; industrial center. municipality of Vietnam
an ancient city (widely regarded as the world's oldest) and present capital and largest city of Syria; according to the New Testament, the Apostle Paul (then known as Saul) underwent a dramatic conversion on the road to Damascus. capital of Syria
English writer of novels about murders and thefts and forgeries (1814-1887). English writer
a chief of the Sioux who resisted the invasion of the Black Hills and joined Sitting Bull in the defeat of General Custer at Little Bighorn (1849-1877). Oglala Sioux chief
(Judeo-Christian and Islamic religions) chief spirit of evil and adversary of God; tempter of mankind; master of Hell. supernatural entity that is the personification of evil and the enemy of god and humankind
port city in northwest Portugal; noted for port wine. municipality and city in Portugal
a Mid-Atlantic state; one of the original 13 colonies. Wikimedia disambiguation page
the vast grassy plains of northern Argentina. Natural region between Argentina, Uruguay and Brazil
an imaginary creature that controls a small hole in a partition that divides a chamber filled with gas into two parts and allows fast molecules to move in one direction and slow molecules to move in the other direction through the hole; this would result in one part of the container becoming warmer and the other cooler, thus decreasing entropy and violating the second law of thermodynamics. thought experiment
a city in western Texas. city in Texas, United States
a lake in northwestern Russia to the north of St. Petersburg; the largest lake in Europe; drains through the Neva River into the Gulf of Finland. freshwater lake in Russia and largest lake entirely in Europe
French philosopher and critic (born in Algeria); exponent of deconstructionism (1930-2004). French philosopher
a town and port in northwestern Israel in the eastern Mediterranean. city in Israel
a river that rises in the Andes mountains in southwestern Colombia and flows generally northward to empty into the Caribbean Sea at Barranquilla. river in Colombia
an Old Testament book that tells of the apocalyptic visions and the experiences of Daniel in the court of Nebuchadnezzar. book of the Bible
a city in southern Peru founded in 1540 on the site of an ancient Inca city. capital city of Arequipa, Peru
Iraqi leader who waged war against Iran; his invasion of Kuwait led to the Gulf War (born in 1937). Iraqi politician and President
Romanian violinist and composer (1881-1955). Romanian composer, violinist, pianist, conductor, and teacher
a river in central Italy rising in the Apennines and flowing through Florence and Pisa to the Ligurian Sea. Italian river
the southern part of ancient Palestine succeeding the kingdom of Judah; a Roman province at the time of Christ. Roman province
modernistic Danish writer (1873-1950). Danish author
a gorge in northeastern Tanzania where anthropologists have found some of the earliest human remains. archaeological site in Tanzania
an Apocryphal book telling how Judith saved her people. book in the Septuagint, regarded as canonical in Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy, but not in Judaism or some Christian traditions; narrates the story of Judith, a widow, who assassinates an enemy general, Holofernes
United States jurist; as chief justice of the Supreme Court he established the principles of United States constitutional law (1755-1835). fourth Chief Justice of the United States
an Asian river; rises in the Himalayas and flows east into the Bay of Bengal; a sacred river of the Hindus. river in Bangladesh and India with major tributeries from Nepal
the fourth caliph of Islam who is considered to be the first caliph by Shiites; he was a cousin and son-in-law of Muhammad; after his assassination Islam was divided into Shiite and Sunnite sects. cousin and son-in-law of the Islamic prophet Muhammad
the Holy Roman Emperor who led the Sixth Crusade and crowned himself king of Jerusalem (1194-1250). 1194 뼰 1250, Holy Roman Emperor of the Middle Ages
Scottish ornithologist in the United States (1766-1813). Wikimedia disambiguation page
a lion-headed Egyptian goddess; typifies life-destroying power of the sun. Egyptian deity
nickname for Saint Paul and Minneapolis. metropolitan area in Minnesota, USA
a mountain in the Hindu Kush in Pakistan (25,230 feet high). highest mountain of the Hindu Kush range
United States anthropologist who was the first to attempt a systematic classification of Native American languages (1837-1899). American archaeologist and ethnologist
Austrian composer (1860-1903). Austrian composer of Slovene origin
a state of southwestern India; a former Portuguese colony. state on the western coast of India
United States inventor of firearms (especially automatic pistols and repeating rifles and a machine gun called the Peacemaker) (1855-1926). firearms designer of the United States
a short river in southeastern Virginia flowing between Norfolk and Portsmouth into Hampton Roads. river in Virginia, United States
Scottish painter; cousin of Lytton Strachey and member of the Bloomsbury Group (1885-1978). British artist
a city in northern Nigeria; a major center of the Hausa people. local government area in Nigeria
Spanish painter (born in Greece) remembered for his religious works characterized by elongated human forms and dramatic use of color (1541-1614). Greek painter, sculptor and architect
pope who signed a treaty with Mussolini recognizing the Vatican City as an independent state (1857-1939). 259th Pope of the Catholic Church
a state in the United States in the central Pacific on the Hawaiian Islands. state of the United States of America, located on an archipelago in the Pacific Ocean
a region in central Italy. region in Italy
German mystic and theosophist who founded modern theosophy; influenced George Fox (1575-1624). German Christian mystic and theologian
a family of United States comedians consisting of four brothers with an anarchic sense of humor. American comedy troupe
English writer of detective fiction (1893-1957). English crime writer, playwright, essayist and Christian writer
a town in northern Maryland to the west of Baltimore. city in Frederick County, Maryland, United States
Spartan general who defeated the Athenians in the final battle of the Peloponnesian War (died in 395 BC). Spartan admiral
a town in southern Minnesota. city in Minnesota
a constellation in the northern hemisphere near Cygnus and Sagitta. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
German statesman who as chancellor of West Germany worked to reduce tensions with eastern Europe (1913-1992). German social-democratic politician; Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany
English physicist and inventor who devised the Wheatstone bridge (1802-1875). British physicist
a desert town in southeastern Algeria. town in Illizi Province, Algeria
United States semanticist (born in Poland) (1879-1950). Polish scientist and philosopher
a city in central Honshu to the northwest of Tokyo; site of a Buddhist shrine. city in Nagano Prefecture, Japan
legendary friend of Gilgamish. character from the Epic of Gilgamesh
a university in England. collegiate public research university located in Oxford, England, United Kingdom
a national park in Texas that has the highest point in Texas; includes desert wilderness and the ancient Apache hunting grounds. national park in Texas, USA
a famous chief of the Shawnee who tried to unite Indian tribes against the increasing white settlement (1768-1813). Native American leader of the Shawnee
German chemist noted for work on synthetic sugars and the purines (1852-1919). German chemist
an area in the western Atlantic Ocean where many ships and planes are supposed to have been mysteriously lost. undefined region in the western part of the North Atlantic Ocean
a coastal area between La Spezia in Italy and Cannes in France. coastal area in the Liguria region
a pass through the Cumberland Mountains between Virginia and Kentucky that early settlers used in order to move west. narrow pass through the Cumberland Mountains
a city on western Hokkaido that is the center of a fertile agricultural area. city in Hokkaido, Japan
a European river; flows into the North Atlantic. Longest river in the Iberian Peninsula
Scottish writer and sister of Richard Haldane and John Haldane (1862-1937). English author, suffragist, nursing administrator, and social welfare worker
the northern part of Bosnia-Herzegovina. northern region of Bosnia and Herzegovina
a small constellation in the southern hemisphere near Phoenix. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
an archipelago of about 100 islands in the North Atlantic off the north coast of Scotland. subarctic archipelago and council area of Scotland that lies north-east of mainland Britain
Swedish poet whose works incorporate Swedish customs and folklore (1864-1931). Swedish poet
French statesman who played a key role in negotiating the Treaty of Versailles (1841-1929). French politician
the southern part of Massachusetts Bay. Bay in Massachusetts, USA
United States mythologist (1904-1987). American mythologist, writer and lecturer
a river of southwestern Africa that rises in central Angola and flows east and then north (forming part of the border between Angola and Congo) and continuing northwest through Congo to empty into the Congo River on the border between Congo and Republic of the Congo. tributary of the Congo River
a Marxist-Leninist group that believes Palestinian goals can only be achieved by revolutionary change. political party
English organist and composer of church and secular music; was granted a monopoly in music printing with William Byrd (1505-1585). English composer
United States film actor who portrayed incorruptible but modest heros (1908-1997). American actor
Hindu god of death; opposite of Kama. Hindu goddess
the historic period (1933-1940) in the United States during which President Franklin Roosevelt's economic policies were implemented. economic programs of U.S. president Franklin D. Roosevelt
the destroyer; one of the three major divinities in the later Hindu pantheon. Hindu god, basis of Shaivism
a territory in northwestern Canada; site of the Klondike gold rush in the 1890s. territory of Canada
a mountainous republic in southeastern Europe bordering on the Adriatic Sea; formed from two of the six republics that made up Yugoslavia until 1992; Serbia and Montenegro were known as the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia until 2003 when they adopted the name of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro. former European state from 2003 to 2006 (named Federal Republic of Yugoslavia until February 2003)
the first of the Old Testament patriarchs and the father of Isaac; according to Genesis, God promised to give Abraham's family (the Hebrews) the land of Canaan (the Promised Land); God tested Abraham by asking him to sacrifice his son. Biblical patriarch
Scottish economist who advocated private enterprise and free trade (1723-1790). Scottish moral philosopher and political economist
United States jurist who served as an associate justice on the United States Supreme Court from 1972 until 1986, when he was appointed chief justice (born in 1924). Chief Justice of the United States
United States minimalist painter (born in 1936). American artist
a small constellation in the polar region of the southern hemisphere near the Southern Cross and Chamaeleon. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
British actor (born in Ireland in 1932). Irish actor
an arm of the Mediterranean between northwest Italy and Corsica. arm of the Mediterranean Sea
French couturier whose first collection in 1947 created a style that became known as the New Look (1905-1957). French fashion designer
a suspension bridge across the Golden Gate. suspension bridge on the San Francisco Bay
a university in Lincoln, Nebraska. public university in Lincoln, Nebraska, United States
an Alaskan island in the Alexander Archipelago near Juneau. island in the United States of America
a river in England and Wales flowing into the Bristol Channel; the longest river in Great Britain. river in the United Kingdom
United States pianist and composer of operas and musical plays (1905-1964). American composer
a cave in southwestern France that contains Paleolithic paintings. Caves in southwestern France famous for its Paleolithic cave paintings
New Zealand operatic soprano (born in 1944). New Zealand opera singer
a narrow bay formed by an inlet from the Atlantic Ocean in southeastern Florida. lagoon located on the Atlantic coast of South Florida
an industrial city in western France on the Loire River. commune in Indre-et-Loire, France
Roman poet remembered for his elegiac verses on love (43 BC - AD 17). Roman poet
(Greek mythology) the Muse of tragedy. muse of song, musical harmony and tragedy in Greek mythology
United States filmmaker (born in 1946). American film director, screenwriter, and producer
a terrorist organization founded in 2000; a militant Islamic group active in Kashmir and closely aligned with al-Rashid Trust; seeks to secure release of imprisoned fellow militants by kidnappings. Terrorist organisation
French physicist who founded thermodynamics (1796-1832). French physicist, the "father of thermodynamics" (1796뼰1832)
United States film actor who frequently plays tough characters (born 1943). American actor, director and producer
a city of southeastern Pennsylvania on the Delaware river (an industrial suburb of Philadelphia). city in Delaware County, Pennsylvania, United States
(Old Testament) the eldest son of Isaac who would have inherited the covenant that God made with Abraham and that Abraham passed on to Isaac; he traded his birthright to his twin brother Jacob for a mess of pottage. older son of Isaac in the Hebrew Bible
a national park in California having mountains and volcanic lakes and hot springs. national park of the United States
the highest peak in the San Juan Mountains of southwestern Colorado (14,309 feet high). mountain
an ancient maritime country (a collection of city states) at eastern end of the Mediterranean. ancient Semitic civilization
Russian statesman chosen as president of the Russian Federation in 2000; formerly director of the Federal Security Bureau (born in 1952). 2nd and 4th President of Russia
a former republic in central Europe; divided into Czech Republic and Slovakia in 1993. 1918뼰1992 country in Central Europe, predecessor of the Czech Republic and Slovakia
a republic on the Pacific coast of Central America. country in Central America
a port city in southern Kenya on a coral island in a bay of the Indian Ocean. city in Kenya
capital of the state of Mississippi on the Pearl River. capital of the state of Mississippi, United States; county seat of Hinds County, MIssissippi
Russian physicist whose research into ways of moving electrons around atoms led to the development of masers and lasers for producing high-intensity radiation (1916-2002). Soviet and Russian physicist
French mathematician who described the vernier scale (1580-1637). French mathematician
a major city of northeastern Oklahoma on the Arkansas river; once known as the oil capital of the world and still heavily involved in the oil and gas industries. county seat of Tulsa County, Oklahoma, United States
United States writer and dramatist (1897-1975). American playwright and novelist
(Greek mythology) the Muse of singing and mime and sacred dance. muse of rhetoric in Greek mythology
French writer and existentialist philosopher (1905-1980). French existentialist philosopher, playwright, novelist, screenwriter, political activist, biographer, and literary critic
Azerbaijani chess master who became world champion in 1985 by defeating Anatoli Karpov (born in 1963). Russian chess player and activist
United States statesman who led the committee that produced the final draft of the United States Constitution (1752-1816). American politician
Spanish missionary who founded Franciscan missions in California (1713-1784). Christian missionary
a city in East Sussex in southern England that is a popular resort; site of the University of Sussex. town on the south coast of Great Britain
the 4th largest of the Great Lakes; it is linked to the Hudson River by the New York State Barge Canal. one of the Great Lakes in North America
a naval battle in the Spanish-American War (1898); the United States fleet bottled up the Spanish ships in the harbor of Santiago de Cuba and destroyed them when they tried to escape. city in Cuba
English chemist and physicist who formulated atomic theory and the law of partial pressures; gave the first description of red-green color blindness (1766-1844). English chemist and physicist
Spanish fashion designer known for his stark elegant designs (1895-1972). Spanish fashion designer
United States actor; son of Maurice Barrymore and Georgiana Barrymore (1882-1942). American actor of stage, screen and radio
the lapse of mankind into sinfulness because of the sin of Adam and Eve. in Christianity, the transition of the first man and woman from a state of innocent obedience to God to a state of guilty disobedience
a range of hills on the border between England and Scotland. mountain
American geneticist who succeeded in transferring a functioning gene from one mouse to another (born in 1934). American biologist
French physicist (1902-1984). French physicist
a county in southwestern England in the lower Severn valley. ceremonial county in England (use Q21694733 for administrative non-metropolitan county)
United States physicist noted for his studies of subatomic particles (born in 1929). American physicist
the capital and largest city of Panama. capital of Panam뭼
a city of east central Russia to the north of Moscow. city in Vologda Oblast, Russia
the capital of the United States in the District of Columbia and a tourist mecca; George Washington commissioned Charles L'Enfant to lay out the city in 1791. capital city of the United States
United States sculptor (born in Russia) known for massive shapes of painted wood (1899-1988). American sculptor
(New Testament) one of the three sages from the east who came bearing gifts for the infant Jesus; usually represented as a king of Nubia. according to Christian tradition, a king of Persia, the eldest of the three Magi that visited Jesus, who brought the gift of gold
a mountainous island in the central Philippines. island in the Philippines
an island state in the West Indies in the southeastern Caribbean Sea; an independent state within the British Commonwealth. country in the Caribbean
United States writer remembered as the secretary and companion of Gertrude Stein (1877-1967). American writer
United States child psychologist whose theories of child psychology strongly influenced educational psychology (1844-1924). American psychologist
German dramatist (1813-1863). German poet and dramatist
the region of the United States lying to the north of the Mason-Dixon line. geographical region of the USA
a South American republic on the southeast coast of South America; achieved independence from Brazil in 1825. republic in South America
a series of wars fought between France (led by Napoleon Bonaparte) and alliances involving England and Prussia and Russia and Austria at different times; 1799-1815. series of wars between Napoleon's French Empire and the 2nd to the 7th coalition of European powers
Soviet statesman whose foreign policy brought an end to the Cold War and whose domestic policy introduced major reforms (born in 1931). General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union
an arm of the Andaman Sea off southern Myanmar. arm of the Andaman Sea
English astronomer who used Newton's laws of motion to predict the period of a comet (1656-1742). English astronomer, geophysicist, mathematician, meteorologist, and physicist
(Greek mythology) goddess of wisdom and useful arts and prudent warfare; guardian of Athens; identified with Roman Minerva. goddess of wisdom in Greek mythology
an armed wing of the (illegal) Communist Party of Spain; seeks to overthrow the Spanish government and replace it with a Marxist-Leninist regime. Inactive, clandestine, Marxist-Leninist Spanish republican group
a town in northwest Illinois on the Mississippi River; site of a Union prison during the American Civil War. city in Illinois
the geographical region believed by ancient geographers to be the northernmost land in the inhabited world. region in the far north in classical European literature
an ancient city on the Nile in Egypt; two dams across the Nile have been built nearby. Egyptian city
a small constellation in the northern hemisphere between Cygnus and Aquila and crossed by the Milky Way. constellation in the northern celestial hemisphere
American psychologist and editor (1860-1944). American psychologist
a city in central Argentina; site of a university founded in 1613. city in Argentina, capital of its province
a Gothic cathedral in northern France; built in 13th century. medieval Roman Rite Catholic cathedral
United States neuroscientist noted for his studies of the neural basis of vision (born in 1926). Canadian neurophysiologist
a river in eastern Asia that arises in China and flows northeast along the border between China and Russia to become a tributary of the Amur River. river in Asia
(Roman Catholic Church) one of the great Fathers of the early Christian church; after a dramatic conversion to Christianity he became bishop of Hippo Regius in North Africa; St. Augustine emphasized man's need for grace (354-430). early Christian theologian and philosopher
(legend) chalice used by Christ at the Last Supper. cup, dish or stone with miraculous powers, important motif in Arthurian literature
a port city of northern Colombia near the Caribbean on the Magdalena River. Capital of the Colombian department of Atl뭼折뢶ico
influential Dutch artist (1606-1669). Dutch painter and etcher
a port in southern Sweden. city in southern Sweden. Use Q503361 for the administrative territorial entity.
a river in Ghana that flows south to the Bight of Benin. river in Ghana
Scottish geologist who described the processes that have shaped the surface of the earth (1726-1797). Scottish geologist and physician
English biochemist who was a pioneer in research on carbohydrates; when he synthesized vitamin C he became the first person to synthesize a vitamin artificially (1883-1950). British chemist
a university in Morgantown, West Virginia. public university in Morgantown, West Virginia, United States
king of Egypt between 1304 and 1237 BC who built many monuments. Egyptian pharaoh of the Nineteenth Dynasty of Egypt
Mongolian emperor whose empire stretched from the Black Sea to the Pacific Ocean (1162-1227). founder and first emperor of the Mongol Empire
United States writer noted for his humorous essays (1899-1985). American writer
Welsh film actor (born in 1937). Welsh actor
a Native American chieftain who argued for peace with the European settlers (16th century). Founder of the Iroquois League
an ancient region of Mesopotamia lying between the Euphrates delta and the Persian Gulf and the Arabian Desert; settled in 1000 BC and destroyed by the Persians in 539 BC; reached the height of its power under Nebuchadnezzar II. small Semitic nation between the late 10th and  mid 6th century BC
a city in northwestern Belgium that is connected by canal to the North Sea; in the 13th century it was a leading member of the Hanseatic League; the old city (known as the City of Bridges) is a popular tourist attraction. city in West Flanders, Belgium
United States songwriter (born in Russia) who wrote more than 1500 songs and several musical comedies (1888-1989). Russian born American songwriter
(Islam) a black stone building in Mecca that is shaped like a cube and that is the most sacred Muslim pilgrim shrine; believed to have been given by Gabriel to Abraham; Muslims turn in its direction when praying. cuboid building in Mecca, Saudi Arabia
English phonetician; one of the founders of modern phonetics (1845-1912). British scholar
Italian pope whose nepotism put the Borgia family in power in Italy (1378-1458). Pope from 1455 to 1458
a city in southwestern Connecticut; site of Yale University. city in Connecticut
the oldest Greek version of the Old Testament; said to have been translated from the Hebrew by Jewish scholars at the request of Ptolemy II. translation of the Hebrew Bible and other books into the Greek language
British biochemist (born in Germany) who isolated and purified penicillin, which had been discovered in 1928 by Sir Alexander Fleming (1906-1979). German scientist
United States labor leader who organized farm workers (born 1927). American farm worker, labor leader, and civil rights activist
one of the four Gospels in the New Testament; contains details of Jesus's birth and early life. book of the Bible
a large zodiacal constellation in the southern hemisphere; between Scorpius and Capricornus. zodiac constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
a republic in Central America; achieved independence from Spain in 1821. country in Central America
pope who condemned religious modernism; he was canonized in 1954 because of his interest in the poor (1835-1914). Catholic Pope and saint
capital city in western Bolivia and the administrative seat of Bolivia's government; largest city in Bolivia. de facto capital city of Bolivia
Greek philosopher who developed an atomistic theory of matter (460-370 BC). Ancient Greek philosopher, pupil of Leucippus, founder of the atomic theory
the hero of Daniel Defoe's novel about a shipwrecked English sailor who survives on a small tropical island. novel by Daniel Defoe
a small constellation in the polar region of the southern hemisphere near Dorado and Carina. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
the treaty imposed on Germany by the Allied powers in 1920 after the end of World War I which demanded exorbitant reparations from the Germans. document ending the First World War
French physicist and author of Charles's law which anticipated Gay-Lussac's law (1746-1823). French inventor, scientist, mathematician, and balloonist
Russian dancer considered by many to be the greatest dancer of the 20th century (1890-1950). Russian ballet dancer and choreographer
United States physicist (born in Germany) who collaborated with Morley in the Michelson-Morley experiment (1852-1931). American physicist
United States electrical engineer who devised the Dolby system used to reduce background noise in tape recording. American engineer and inventor of the noise reduction system
United States showman famous for his Wild West Show (1846-1917). American frontiersman and showman
a long narrow inlet of the Norwegian Sea. inlet of the Norwegian Sea in Norway
English navigator who claimed the east coast of Australia for Britain and discovered several Pacific islands (1728-1779). British explorer, navigator
a city in central Illinois; Abraham Lincoln practiced law here. city in Macon County, Illinois, United States
Persian poet and mathematician and astronomer whose poetry was popularized by Edward Fitzgerald's translation (1050-1123). Persian poet, philosopher, mathematician, and astronomer
a range of low hills in southwestern England. protected area in south central England
English dandy who was a fashion leader during the Regency (1778-1840). English man of fashion
English navigator who in 1583 established in Newfoundland the first English colony in North America (1539-1583). English explorer, politician and soldier
a town in northern Michigan on an arm of Lake Huron. city in Michigan, USA
a group of islands off southeastern Alaska. archipelago of North America off the southeastern coast of Alaska
a borough of Greater London on the Thames; contains Buckingham Palace and the Houses of Parliament and Westminster Abbey. borough and city in London
a historical region of central Asia that was a center for trade between the East and the West. region; land of the Turks
the part of Kurdistan that is in northwestern Iraq. Iraqi part of Kurdistan
French socialist who argued that property is theft (1809-1865). French politician, mutualist philosopher, economist, and socialist
a small conspicuous constellation in the southern hemisphere in the Milky Way near Centaurus. constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
British author of historical novels and ballads (1771-1832). Scottish historical novelist, playwright, and poet
a city in northwest Texas to the south of Amarillo. county seat of Lubbock County, Texas, United States
United States publisher of magazines (1898-1967). American publisher
a coastal region of the western Arabian Peninsula bordering on the Red Sea; includes both Mecca and Medina; formerly an independent kingdom until it united with Nejd to form the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. region in the west of Saudi Arabia, containing Mecca and Medina
a small faint zodiacal constellation in the southern hemisphere; between Virgo and Scorpius. zodiac constellation in the southern celestial hemisphere
an agreement first drawn up in Geneva in 1864 and later revised concerning the treatment of captured and wounded military personnel and civilians in wartime. The standards of international law for humanitarian treatment in war
Jewish republic in southwestern Asia at eastern end of Mediterranean; formerly part of Palestine. country in Western Asia
Italian physicist after whom the volt is named; studied electric currents and invented the voltaic pile (1745-1827). Italian physicist
United States journalist (born in England) noted for his syndicated homey verse (1881-1959). American writer
a range of the Appalachians to the west of the Hudson in southeastern New York; includes many popular resort areas. large area in the southeastern portion of the U.S. state of New York
a mountainous island in eastern Indonesia. island of Indonesia
a Roman statesman and orator remembered for his mastery of Latin prose (106-43 BC). Roman philosopher and statesman
third son of Elizabeth II (born in 1964). Youngest son of Elizabeth II
(New Testament) the sages who visited Jesus and Mary and Joseph shortly after Jesus was born; the Gospel According to Matthew says they were guided by a star and brought gifts of gold and frankincense and myrrh; because there were three gifts it is usually assumed that there were three of them. group of distinguished foreigners who visited Jesus after his birth
an island of western Scotland at the southern end of the Inner Hebrides. southernmost island of the Inner Hebrides of Scotland
United States rock singer (born in 1931). American rock-and-roll guitarist, singer, songwriter
provincial capital and largest city of Nova Scotia. capital of province of Nova Scotia, Canada
a city in northwestern Syria. city and governorate capital of Aleppo, Syria
French mathematician and astronomer who formulated the nebular hypothesis concerning the origins of the solar system and who developed the theory of probability (1749-1827). French mathematician and astronomer
a republic in Asia Minor on the Black Sea separated from Russia by the Caucasus mountains; formerly an Asian soviet but became independent in 1991. republic in the Caucasus region
an island country in the central Windward Islands; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1979. country in the Caribbean
a 5,000 pound laser-guided bomb that can be programmed to penetrate to a given depth before exploding; used to penetrate hardened underground facilities. aerial bomb
a picturesque city of southern California on San Diego Bay near the Mexican border; site of an important naval base. city in California, eighth largest city in the United States by population
the smaller but more populous of two main islands of New Zealand; separated from South Island by Cook Strait. More northern, and smaller, of the two main islands of New Zealand
a country on several of the Leeward Islands; located to the east southeast of Puerto Rico; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1983. country in Central America and Caribbean
Anglo-Saxon poet (circa 9th century). Anglo Saxon poet
United States frontiersman who guided Fremont's expeditions in the 1840s and served as a Union general in the American Civil War (1809-1868). American frontiersman and Union Army general
German printer who was the first in Europe to print using movable type and the first to use a press (1400-1468). German blacksmith, goldsmith, printer and publisher
a costal region of Antarctica to the south of Australia; noted for its large colonies of penguins. France's territorial claim in Antarctica
a port city in Japan on Osaka Bay in southern Honshu; was damaged by an earthquake in 1995. capital city of Hy뫗뒗o Prefecture, Honsh嚥, Japan
(Greek mythology) a Titaness and sea goddess; wife of Oceanus. mythological figure
a republic in West Africa on the Gulf of Guinea. republic in West Africa
(Old Testament) third son of Adam and Eve; given by God in place of the murdered Abel. Biblical figure, Holy Forefather, Antediluvian Patriarch
English chemist and physicist; discovered thallium; invented the radiometer and studied cathode rays (1832-1919). British chemist and physicist
an island at the entrance of Galveston Bay. island in the United States of America
a string of more than 3,000 islands to the east of Asia extending 1,300 miles between the Sea of Japan and the western Pacific Ocean. archipelago
(Greek mythology) a simple countryman who offered hospitality to Zeus and Hermes when they came to earth without revealing their identities in order to test people's piety. ancient Greek mythical characters
Alexandrian astronomer (of the 2nd century) who proposed a geocentric system of astronomy that was undisputed until the late Renaissance. Greco-Egyptian writer and astronomer of Alexandria
a mountainous region of northern Scotland famous for its rugged beauty; known for the style of dress (the kilt and tartan) and the clan system (now in disuse). historic region of Scotland
the capital and largest city of Madagascar. capital of Madagascar
a street in Manhattan that passes through Times Square; famous for its theaters. street in Manhattan
English court physician noted for his studies of terrestrial magnetism (1540-1603). American biochemist
United States physiologist (born in Germany) who did research on parthenogenesis (1859-1924). German-born American physiologist and biologist
an ancient Greek city located in the western part of what is now modern Turkey; as the capital of Lydia it was the cultural center of Asia Minor; destroyed by Tamerlane in 1402. ancient city at the location of modern Sart
United States film maker (born in Poland) who founded his own film company and later merged with Louis B. Mayer (1882-1974). Polish-American film producer
a former Celtic kingdom in northwestern England; the name continued to be used for the hilly northwestern region of England including the Lake District and the northern Pennines. county in England
the world's largest active volcano; located in the Andes in north central Ecuador. stratovolcano in the Andes Mountains
a rock group from Liverpool who between 1962 and 1970 produced a variety of hit songs and albums (most of them written by Paul McCartney and John Lennon). English rock band
a promontory on the far southern part of Nova Scotia. island in Canada
the largest island of Denmark and the site of Copenhagen. island in Denmark
United States novelist remembered for his portrayal of life in the United States (1896-1970). American novelist, playwright, poet, journalist, painter
Hindu god personifying a creative force; equivalent to Brahma. Lord of creatures in Hinduism
United States printer noted for designing typefaces (1865-1947). American artist
a fictitious detective in stories by A. Conan Doyle. fictional private detective created by Arthur Conan Doyle
the capital of the state of Kansas; located in eastern Kansas on the Kansas river. capital of the state of Kansas, United States; county seat of Shawnee County
English writer known for his humorous novels and stories (1881-1975). English author
United States engineer (born in Germany) who designed and began construction of the Brooklyn bridge (1806-1869). German-American engineer
German romantic writer (1759-1805). German poet, philosopher, historian, and playwright
the strait separating Vancouver Island from the Canadian mainland. strait between Vancouver Island and the mainland coast of British Columbia, Canada and Washington, United States
a town in eastern Texas. city in Texas, USA
United States writer whose novels portray middle-class Jewish life (born in 1933). American novelist
Dutch physicist (1837-1923). Dutch physicist
the capital and largest city of Afghanistan; located in eastern Afghanistan. capital of Afghanistan
an island country in the Atlantic off the coast of Senegal. country comprising ten islands off the Western coast of Africa
Russian revolutionary who was head of state after Nicholas II abdicated but was overthrown by the Bolsheviks (1881-1970). Russian politician
Russian chess master who moved to Paris; world champion from 1969 to 1972 (born in 1937). Russian chess player
United States tennis player (born in Czechoslovakia) who won several singles championships; in 1992 he became a United States citizen (born in 1960). Czechoslovakian tennis player
a national park in Hawaii featuring active volcanoes. national park of the United States
a collection of sacrificial formulas and prayers. One of four Vedas of Hinduism
a state in the western United States; mountainous in the west and north with the Great Plains in the east. state of the United States of America
a constellation in the southern hemisphere near Tucana and Sculptor. minor constellation in the southern sky
an African river; flows into the Indian Ocean. fourth-longest river in Africa
a glacial lake in central New York; the largest of the Finger Lakes. lake in New York, United States of America
king of Italy who completed the unification of Italy by acquiring Venice and Rome (1820-1878). Italian politician, king of Sardinia-Piemont and Italy
an arm of the Mediterranean between Slovenia and Croatia and Montenegro and Albania on the east and Italy on the west. body of water
a syllabic script used in Greece in the 13th century B.C.. ancient writing system
a national park in Kentucky having a large cavern and an underground river. U.S. national park in Kentucky
region in southern South America between the Andes and the South Atlantic. a region located at the southern end of South America
a paramilitary group of Protestants in Northern Ireland that tries to prevent any political settlement with the Irish Republic; attacks interests of Catholic civilians in Northern Ireland; responsible for arson and bombing and murder. illegal paramilitary organisation in Northern Ireland
American naval commander in the American Revolution (1747-1792). American naval officer
the capital city of the Chinese province of Gansu on the Yellow River. capital of Gansu province, China
a river in western Thailand; a major tributary of the Chao Phraya. river in northern Thailand
an industrial city in the European part of Russia; birthplace of Maksim Gorky. capital of the Volga Federal District in Russia
a river that rises in northeastern Wyoming and flows through Montana and South Dakota to join the Missouri River in North Dakota. watercourse in the United States of America
a city in southern Finland. city in the region of Uusimaa in Finland
capital of the state of Washington; located in western Washington on Puget Sound. county seat in Thurston County, Washington, USA and Washington federated state capital city
the capital and largest city of Liechtenstein. capital of Liechtenstein
a terrorist organization in Sri Lanka that began in 1970 as a student protest over the limited university access for Tamil students; currently seeks to establish an independent Tamil state called Eelam; relies on guerilla strategy including terrorist tactics that target key government and military personnel. militant organization in Sri Lanka
a region of northeastern France famous for its wines. former administrative region and former province of France
part of the Arctic Ocean to the north of Iceland. sea
a self-governing colony that is a possession of Denmark in the Faroe Islands. autonomus constituent country of the Kingdom of Denmark
Swedish chemist who discovered rare earth elements (1797-1858). Swedish chemist and mineralogist
a terrorist organization founded by Osama bin Laden in the 1980s to provide money and recruit fighters around the world; enlisted and transported thousands of men to Afghanistan to fight the Russians; a split in the group led bin Laden and the extremist faction of MAK to form al-Qaeda. organization aimed at fighting the Soviets in Afghanistan
American Revolutionary leader and educator (born in Scotland) who signed of the Declaration of Independence and was president of the college that became Princeton University (1723-1794). Scottish-American Presbyterian minister and a Founding Father of the United States
a nonexistent person popularized by American servicemen during World War II. common marking in World War II
Scottish engineer and inventor whose improvements in the steam engine led to its wide use in industry (1736-1819). British engineer
a mountain range in the Balkan peninsula in southeastern Europe; extends along the border between Greece and Bulgaria. mountain range in Southeastern Europe
a port city in northeastern Bulgaria on the Black Sea. city in Bulgaria
United States politician who unscrupulously accused many citizens of being Communists (1908-1957). Wisconsin politician
South African playwright whose plays feature the racial tensions in South Africa during apartheid (born in 1932). South African playwright
(Greek mythology) a famous mythical Greek hero; his return to Ithaca after the siege of Troy was described in the Odyssey. legendary Greek king of Ithaca
Welsh chieftain who led a revolt against Henry IV's rule in Wales (1359-1416). Prince of Wales
English nurse remembered for her work during the Crimean War (1820-1910). English social reformer, statistician, and founder of modern nursing
the first Saxon ruler who extended his kingdom to include nearly all of England (895-939). King of the Anglo-Saxons, King of the English
goddess of the underworld; counterpart of Greek Persephone. roman deity
United States country singer and songwriter (1923-1953). American country music singer
a port city in eastern Mexico. city and port in Tampico, Tamaulipass, Mexico
a state in the western United States on the Pacific; the 3rd largest state; known for earthquakes. state of the United States of America
an Apocryphal book that was a popular novel for several centuries. deuterocanonical, apocryphal story about Tobit & Anna and their son Tobias and his adventures with Raphael
Scottish writer of adventure novels (1721-1771). 18th-century poet and author from Scotland
a Canadian river; flows into the Beaufort Sea. largest river system in Canada
United States politician and jurist who served as chief justice of the United States Supreme Court (1808-1873). Former Chief Justice and Secretary of the Treasury of the United States
United States physicist who developed the cyclotron (1901-1958). American nuclear physicist
French pianist and composer (1899-1963). French composer
a republic in northeastern Africa on the Red Sea; achieved independence from Egypt and the United Kingdom in 1956. country in Northeast Africa
a country on the island of Cyprus; 80% of the people are of Greek origin and 20% or Turkish origin. island country in the Eastern Mediterranean
a tower 605 feet tall in Seattle; a tourist attraction. tower in Seattle
Athenian statesman and orator (circa 385-322 BC). ancient Athenian statesman and orator
United States cartoonist noted for his drawings of soldiers in battle (1921-2003). American editorial cartoonist
British playwright (born in Ireland); founder of the Fabian Society (1856-1950). Irish playwright
a violent terrorist group organized in the 1980s and advocating the overthrow of the Chilean military government; leaders are mainly criminals or impoverished youths. Organizaci뮁塋 guerrillera de izquierda revolucionaria de Chile durante las d뫜뜉adas de 1980 y 1990; facci뮁塋 escindida y rupturista del Movimiento de Acci뮁塋 Popular Unitaria en 1982.
chief port and economic center of Nigeria; located in southwestern Nigeria on the Gulf of Guinea; former capital of Nigeria. city in Nigeria
a shallow salt lake in south central Australia about 35 feet below sea level; the largest lake in the country and the lowest point on the continent. endorheic lake in South Australia
English writer and caricaturist (1872-1956). English writer
a lake in northeastern New York, northwestern Vermont and southern Quebec; site of many battles in the French and Indian War and in the American Revolution and in the War of 1812. lake in New York, Vermont and Quebec
political and spiritual leader during India's struggle with Great Britain for home rule; an advocate of passive resistance (1869-1948). pre-eminent leader of Indian nationalism during the British Raj
Welsh soldier who from 1916 to 1918 organized the Arab revolt against the Turks; he later wrote an account of his adventures (1888-1935). British archaeologist, military officer, and diplomat
the largest city of Ecuador. the second most populous city in Ecuador
a huge bronze statue of the sun god Helios that was built around 285 BC and that stood beside the harbor entrance on the island of Rhodes for about 50 years before it was toppled by an earthquake. statue of the Greek Titan Helios; one of the seven wonders of the ancient world
an island in the western Leeward Islands; administered jointly by France and the Netherlands. country on the Caribbean island of Saint Martin, part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands
Indian grammarian whose grammatical rules for Sanskrit are the first known example of descriptive linguistics (circa 400 BC). ancient Sanskrit grammarian
